
I:	So I was hoping that just to get started here so just a few quick notes so 
I’m going to ask you mainly about your current organisation and sort of the 
current state of play as it were but either of you have past experiences either 
from previous positions you’ve held at, at this organisation or other 
organisations that you would like to reflect on about how things have changed 
or evolved over time that’s, I’m very happy to hear about that as well and that’s 
sort of like the main thing I like to say and then if there’s other, you know, I’m 
mainly focusing on registration and reporting but if there’s other aspects of 
trials transparency and sort of research integrity that you feel are relevant to 
the questions I ask you can feel free to touch on those as well.   So I was 
hoping, firstly, could each of you just quickly tell me a bit about your role and 
your position?



R1:	Okay yes so I’m [name] I’m the R&D Manager for [NHS Trust] and I have, I 
suppose in a nutshell I have corporate responsibility from an operational point of 
view for all of the research that we do, clinical research that we do across our 
hospital sites which includes [various sites] and I head up a small team of, R&D 
team, which includes [R2’s] branch of that which [R2] will introduce [themselves] in a 
minute looking after the QA side so ultimately, I’m, if you like, sponsor representative 
for want of a better phrase.

R2:	I’m [name], I am R&D QA manager working with [R1] and two other people, 
two monitors. There’s a small QA team, four of us and been in post for oh I think 
[over a decade] now but and we sit within the main R&D group, but we are a sort of 
separate and we mainly look after the house sponsored, the Trust sponsored 
CTIMPs.

I:	Okay great.

R2:	We sometimes venture into the more higher risk non-CTIMPs but it is mainly 
the CTIMPs.

I:	Gotcha okay great and so I think you may have mentioned [R2] but how 
long both like been working roughly in the area of like, you know, clinical 
trials, research management and administration?

R1:	For me it is thirteen years.

I:	Okay.

R2:	It’s a bit longer, I’ve worked in other research departments but I’ve been in 
R&D since about 2012 I think it was [R1] wasn’t it?

R1:	Yeah.

I:	Okay great and then just so I get a sense of your organisation, what is 
roughly the size of your portfolio of trials at a given time.  I don’t need an exact 
number, like a rough, rough estimate and like what proportion of that is 
CTIMPs versus non-CTIMPs generally.  

R1:	So, across the board including things that we host, so not everything we 
sponsor, we’ve probably got about 450 active studies in different phases at any one 
time. Probably about 80 of those, 80-90 of those are Trust sponsored and then 
breaking that down into the CTIMP category of those 90 probably might be half a 
dozen that are, are CTIMP. Sometimes that fluctuates so we’re not, we’re not a huge 
Trust in that regard but that can fluctuate some years up to probably doubling that 
maybe twelve studies.

I:	Okay, yeah so it varies but like a relatively low proportion of your entire 
portfolio is CTIMPs at any given time?

R:	Yeah.

I:	Okay, great so to get things started we’ll come back to a lot, more of the 
particulars about how the organisation sort of manages the day to day of 
doing a lot of this work but the first thing I like to ask is just is, is if each of you 
could in your own words explain to me sort of the importance of registration 
and reporting of clinical trials sort of like, why is this something we care 
about? Why is it something we often require? Just in your own words like 
could you both just give an idea of like in your mind why is that important?

R1:	I think one of the things I notice from my role and [R2] may have a different 
view is that there’s so much focus operation on getting things up and running and 
started for research and so much time taken with that and the regulatory side that it’s 
often an overlooked element but actually when you stop to think for a second it’s 
more important to some extent than the transparency is more important that some of 
the earlier elements yeah because essentially without that integrity of data sharing 
the research is meaningless in my mind. You know, you could have a really good, it 
can, both, both ends of the spectrum, you can have a really good well designed, 
robust regulatory type project which doesn’t go anywhere because it’s, it’s not 
publicised. It’s not replicated, it’s not tested then again you could equally have 
somebody who might be wanting to hide results for a particular reason or a particular 
purpose or commercial gain and actually that just stifles research so I think from, 
from my point of view, there’s no point us doing the work, there’s no point us putting 
the energy in and the effort into doing that work and also actually you lose sight of 
the fact of why we’re doing the research.  I think that’s my biggest grievance I would 
say from all of these processes that you get so wrapped up in what we have to do, 
the hurdles we have to jump through that we forget that actually the results matter to 
patients. And not just patients of now but patients of the future so actually without 
those results being available the new treatments are not going to be available to our 
patients or they are and they’re gonna be available and cause some issues for 
patients further down the line.

R2:	Well I can’t, you know, I haven’t got a lot to add to that because I agree 
entirely with what [R1] has said but looking at it even from our single centre Trust 
sponsored CTIMP studies, as [R1] says, historically we’ve been focusing on getting 
them set up but we’re running into GCP and UK regs and that’s been a very 
important part and you might think well a single centre study in one of our academic 
departments, ‘what difference is that gonna make to the world?’ but it needs to be 
out there because other people like yourselves that go and look on research and I 
think ‘oh I’ve got an idea for a study here,’ it might already have been done and 
nobody’s put it out there, the bad and the good results, so you know, the multicentre 
stuff yes that’s obvious but it’s also our single centre stuff as well I think that we, you 
know, we need to, it needs to be there, it needs to be out there and is just as 
important as the multicentre stuff, yeah.

I:	Yeah great.

R1:	It’s also a skill as well, it’s also a skill that our researchers need to herd and 
develop, you know, it’s part of being an academic. It’s the complete package.  It isn’t 
just getting the data into a system and pressing a button to say that’s the result.  It’s 
about articulating that result to an audience, and I think that’s that’s really important.  

R2:	Mm.

I:	And what about sort of registration, so that’s the results dissemination 
part, why, why do we sort of have these requirements about registration which 
is sort of more on the start-up side you were maybe referring to earlier with, 
along with the, like your GCP training and your audit set up and all that sort of 
things, why do we, why do we register trials?

R1:	I think again as [R2] said, I think you know, it’s, it’s to show the general 
community of what’s happening, what the intentions are for that research and you 
would hope maybe naively that that would inform future research collaborations 
strategies within organisations and groups to network but it’s, it’s also important to 
know that you’re not duplicating work so I think it’s, it’s really important that there’s a 
registration there but also I think as well just from a behavioural point of view, setting 
that stall out very early on that this is a formal process and a formal requirement and 
giving it the same credibility as you would when any researcher expects to put an 
ethics application or an application into the MHRA, that is a registration in itself, that 
application is an acknowledgement that we have an intention to do something and 
we’re seeking regulatory approval but sometimes, they’re viewed in different ways.  
They’re viewed as I’ve gotta do that because that’s, that’s the law, it’s regulatory and 
the registration side is equally as important and will be part of the submission and 
the law so I think that’s that would be my view on it. And I think just you have to 
register a trial, especially a drug trial.  All trials should be registered but especially a 
drug trial because the competent authorities need to know what’s going on out there 
and what we’re using and what we’re testing so it it’s, there’s got to be a central point 
at which you can go on and say, ‘Right we are aware, the MHRA for example in this 
country are aware of this trial and we, you know, we expect it to come through to be 
approved [um] and we know what’s going on and the safety issue as well.  

I:	Great so now coming back into speaking about more of the specifics 
about, you know, you’re your organisation.  So can you talk me through the 
process of how sort of a trial gets set up, you know, you mentioned that that 
can be quite an onerous thing so if I’m a PI, let’s, let’s say I have my grant 
funding already and I come and I say, ‘Alright, I wanna do a trial.’ What, what is 
that process look like?

R1:	So it starts with a, [R2] you can correct me if I’m wrong with some of these 
things, but it starts with a sponsorship request form, so we would ask the applicants 
fill in a form detailing what their intentions are, what the topic is, some of the 
resources that they’re gonna need and details of the funding that they have in place 
and then from a, if it’s a CTIMP for example, [R2] and [another colleague] that, the 
trial monitor, will review some of that early documentation, that protocol help steer 
the protocol in terms of making sure it meets the requirements that we have as a 
sponsor, review all of the other documentation prior to submission to ethics and 
MHRA that will be a iterative process back and forth and then culminating in a 
submission that we’re happy with to sign off to go to the regulatory approvals.  In 
parallel with that we’d be working alongside the team to understand, you know, if 
there’s third parties involved with Trials Units and different third-party vendors. We’d 
be working alongside that for contracting and vendor assessments and then as part 
of the process as well we’ll be setting up a monitoring plan, so we’ve got the 
oversight of what’s happening with that activity, risk assessments you’d be doing 
[R2] I think as well from an ongoing point of view. What we can also do is we have a, 
a sponsor oversight group that meets every month and we would then be [putting 
that on the list of new studies for application to discuss with the oversight group.
And then ultimately once we’re happy the sponsor then signs off a green light for that 
to commence and then the monitoring plan will commence once they’ve started 
culminating in the close out visit and then from a reporting point of view at the end 
[R2] can probably talk through so the reminders that we have in place for our CIs 
and PIs that’s, that’s in a crude, in a crude sort of process that’s, that’s all the 
process. 

I:	Sure, sure.

R1:	Is there anything else that I’ve missed [R2]?

R2:	No, I think that’s broad, broadly it, yes, yeah. There is tooing and froing.

I:	Yes, so during that process so does like just in terms of sequencing so 
you have, you know, so you request sponsorship and does ethics happen 
alongside that or would ethics happen after sponsorship has already agreed 
to?

R1:	Yes.

R2:	Sorry yeah it would happen after the sponsorship request form we’d, we’d 
study that, we’d look at a draft protocol. We’d in principle would agree to sponsor it 
[R1]. wouldn’t we?  I mean the final, the final agreement to sponsorship is signing off 
the IRAS form which [R1] will do and then the submissions take place.

I:	 To the, in that to start, kicks off the ethics process.

R2:	Yes, yeah.

I:	Okay great and then sort of now as you move into ethics and there’s 
more active monitoring of the things that need to be done so like where does, 
say like, you know, registration for like where does that sort of then enter the 
picture as a, as a thing for both I understand it’s different processes so I’d be 
interested to hear about how you handle it for both CTIMPs and non-CTIMPs 
and what your processes are for ensuring that that happens or what that looks 
like?

R2:	Well historically we’ve always had to have a EudraCT number with our 
CTIMPs and we tend to do that so that we have some control over checking to see 
whether they’ve been reported or uploaded on to the EudraCT system.  But at that 
time, we also encourage if they want to put it on clincaltrials.gov or ISRCTN or 
whatever so that is usually on the protocol and the completed in the IRAS form, Is 
that the sort of thing you were asking about?

I:	Yeah so basically for a CTIMP obviously up until Brexit, up until earlier 
this year there was an automatic, automated process for registration but so 
you’re saying that even if you did a CTIMP if they wanted to they could also 
put it on the ISRCTN or clincialtrials.gov, you’re happy to be supportive of that

R2:	Mm.

I:	 and then for non-CTIMPs is that sort of just a thing they have to do 
themselves or would formally require them to sort of, no you need to like 
register here at some point, like we’re telling you need to do this?

R2:	Yeah, well, the ethics letter approval letter usually states that it has to be 
registered on somewhere.

I:	Okay.

R2:	Now forgive me if that’s not for non-CTIMPs [R1] I know it is for CTIMPs but-,

R1:	Yeah, yeah for non-CT, I think, I think where where we’re going with this is 
that the, for the CTIMPs it’s an automated process, for non-CTIMPs it’s not, so our 
safety net that we rely on is the ethics process to basically remind the applicant and I 
think it’s fair to say that there’s a mixed response and we don’t necessarily police 
that from a resourcing point of view, we don’t necessarily have the res- we haven’t 
directed resource to that yet for non-CTIMPs.  CTIMPs certainly, non-CTIMPs less 
so.  We do get it’s a mixture so from my perspective overseeing things from a more 
higher up level I do see quite a lot of the non-CTIMP applicants will take that advice 
from the ethics committee and will, and will see it as a mandatory thing to do and 
actually register. So, I have, I’m one of the authorised users for clinicaltrials.gov to 
issue licences access that system so again centrally a lot of people will come to me 
and say, “I want to register the study. It’s part of medics application,” but what we 
haven’t necessarily got I don’t think for non-CTIMPs is that joined up approach 
where it triggers it so even as we’re talking now, I’m thinking, you know, that’s just 
something we would potentially add to the sponsorship request.

I:	Sure.

R1:	So that actually it ties it in. Does that answer the question?

I:	Yes, yes absolutely and so the okay yeah and now so touching back, 
[R2] may have touched on this a little bit in one of her prior responses or 
maybe it was[R1], one, maybe both of you did but coming along to trial close 
out so there’s obviously this, once again up until recently this EU requirement 
for CTIMPs to put them on the register so it sounds like that was, you had a 
formal close out process. You sort of chased that and ensure that, can you tell 
me a bit how that operated and how that looked in your experiences with that 
when it was, when it was still happening?

R2:	Right, well we always had it as a reminder for the close out monitoring visit, 
we, you know, on our check list so at that point the investigators would be reminded 
that they have got the year to upload results onto whichever websites they said in 
their application form, their IRAS application form. We would also put in, we’d only, 
we use Outlook so we’d put in three six and nine and twelve month reminders that 
came up to us to the R&D QA team and we would then email the investigators to 
say, “look do you know, you’ve now got nine months in order to, not only the 
summary which we need to send to REC but also to upload the, the reports, the 
results onto the websites, the databases.” 
We have it in the we have a formal agreement between PI and sponsor for our single 
site studies and it’s in there as well. They’re signing up to agree to do that they 
upload results. We have it for a CI sponsor for our multicentre studies as well which 
we sponsor so we have it, we have it in our data management plan again that they 
are agreeing to do this so they’re all just, they’re all just paper reminders but we, we 
do our best to highlight this is something that we have to do and try and keep track of 
it ourselves.  We are looking in the future to try and get slightly more sophisticated 
automated reminders and things like that but that’s where we are at the moment. 

I:	Great and what has been, and so do you do those reminders just for 
CTIMPs or do you kind of push people to upload results no matter where 
they’ve, no matter the type of, like because you obviously you only have your 
deadline for things that are regulated, everyone else can sort of take a bit more 
time if they need it.  

R2:	Yeah.

I:	But so is that process just for CTIMPs generally?

R2:	CTIMPs and high-risk non-CTIMPs but the vast majority, we the QA team 
does not oversee. 

I:	Yeah okay, gotcha right because you mainly focus on those very very 
limited group. 

R2:	We do.  We only have limited resources; there are only three, just recently 
four of us and we, obviously our CTIMPs have to be our main priority.

I:	Yes, great.

R2:	Yeah.

I:	And then so I’m wondering how do PIs tend to respond to that sort of 
reminder process.  Are they, like they do push back on it? Are they fed up with 
it and then like or are they happy to do it and they like the reminders, and it 
keeps them honest, it’s like, you know, what’s the general reaction been to 
that, that you’ve seen?

R1:	It’s mixed isn’t it and I think again depending on the clinician and the area, you 
know, some will, some will just ignore the reminders others will respond back with a 
holding statement that says, ‘You know, I’m on call so I’ve got this commitment at the 
moment but I’ll do it within x time frame,” and you can sort of take your foot off the 
gas a little bit and I think what we, so it is a mixed bag and it’s, it’s almost just that 
relentless communication but to be fair, you know, we, we’re a small team but 
actually we build relationships with those clinicians so we can, we can push and we 
know how far to push things before we have to have conversations and things and 
one of the things that we have started to do recently, pre-pandemic I suppose, was 
using the sponsor oversight group to escalate any issues because I think ultimately if 
we think we can control it we will do but if it comes peer to peer from a clinician so 
our, the member of, the chair of the oversight group is our R&D Director who is a 
clinician and academic so if he, if they get a letter from a peer saying look, you know, 
pull your socks up, you know, why haven’t you done this it adds a bit more weight to 
it.  

I:	Okay.

R1:	So, we give them, we’re quite polite and maybe we need to, we need to not 
be as polite, but we try and give every opportunity for them to, you know, hit the 
milestone and do it but ultimately we have had I think, I think there’s two occasions 
we’ve had to write a letter

R2:	Yes.

R1:	and a combination of that and a couple of more prods from us and it did the 
trick, I think.

R2:	It did, yes, yeah it helped, yeah.

I:	Great and then what was your, like I understand, so for CTIMPs, you 
know, the new requirement came about and there was sort of like a 
retrospective, you know, requirement to report as well. Like, can you talk 
about what was the process for dealing with that, you know, and trying to keep 
up with that.  I don’t know exactly what your like situation was with what you 
were reporting at that time and stuff but you know, did you have a, like was 
that, was that a mountain to climb and what did that look like?

R2:	Mhm.

R1:	Yes [R2’s] got the scars. [laughter]

R2:	I’m still getting flashbacks [laughs] yes, yes it was, our percentage of reported 
trials it was evidence to see it was [a lower] per cent for EudraCT that was a 
EUTrackers, ClinicalTrials.gov was probably the same sort of percentage-wise I 
would, would you say [R1], yeah.  

R1:	Yeah.

R2:	And yes, it was a, a mountain to climb.  We realised we’d, we’d not kept a 
close enough eye on this and it was just blanket approach of just getting everybody 
to try and do, to upload results and it, I mean I have to say we now stand at for the 
CTIMPs for EudraCT, we now stand at [a much higher] percent [R1], the last time we 
looked.  

R1:	Yeah.

R2:	So, there are some that obviously haven’t, we’ve got a couple that are out 
there. We tried to do as much as we could ourselves but obviously we need the 
clinicians, we need the investigators doing the bulk of it but we did help where we 
could and that’s why we sort of tried to take control of certainly EudraCT as well as 
ClinicalTrial.gov because [R1] manages that and so does [another colleague] our 
monitor but we sort of took control and I took control of the, the studies on EudraCT 
so I could send them out and know what was happening and keep an eye on things 
and it was just, it was a slog if I’m honest but we are getting there, you know, and 
hopefully implementing things going forward it will never get to that situation again.

I:	Yeah, do you feel like that’s, or do you feel like this, it was sort of you 
know, a slog as you’ve described but also led you some like positive process 
improvement and iteration of your internal processes that have improved the 
way you go about monitoring, like is that, would that be fair to say?

R2:	Oh, I think so, [R1] I leave that up to you, you know.

R1:	Yeah no I think, I think what it’s done, it’s done that, it’s definitely done that in 
terms of, you know, revising some of the processes and tweaking the processes and 
tightening things at that end but I think more, more than that going back to my earlier 
point, it actually made us sit back and think this is an important issue rather than and 
it’d been overlooked I think, you know.

I:	Mhm.

R1:	So I think that’s what I took away from it was actually there is no point us 
doing, you know, it’s half a job isn’t it, you know, you can, you can do really well and 
get a flying report from the MHRA saying that you’re compliant in everything else , 
everyone’s happy, the funders are happy but that last bit of getting that information 
available and fully accessible is just as important and I think we probably well I can 
only speak for myself, but from my point of view, it was probably overlooked so I 
think that’s the biggest thing that the media attention around that and the, the 
intensity of getting that sorted in in a short space of time me really and actually that’s 
started to transverse, you know, to some degree onto the researchers themselves as 
well.  They, they’re pre-empting the questions that we’re gonna ask them, you know, 
they’re pre-empting sending us drafts of reports. They’re, you know those sorts of 
things, they’re realising, you that’s equally important from that point of view.

I:	Mhm 

R2:	No sorry I was going to say we always had sort of a process to try and get the 
clinical trials summaries in on time but that

I:	The REC, 

R2:	Exactly.

I:	like the REC requirement.

R2:	Yes, yeah but obviously we didn’t follow that through with the reporting so, 
you know, we always had that sort of process and reminders and that was our sort of 
aim to get the clinical trials summaries in on time.

I:	Sure.

R:	We just needed to take it that step further.

I:	And as far as any like publications arising from this work, you know, in a 
journal like is that all pretty much left to the, like you guys are pretty hands off 
when it comes to that stuff or do the, do the PIs like do the PIs mainly own that 
process or are you guys involved in that process in any way?

R1:	I think we used to be hands off and that again that’s a by-product, a positive 
by-product of this whole process is that we probably were hands off, it was a bit like 
we’ve done our bit, onto the next study and what this has shown us is we 
implemented a, a I suppose it’s, it’s still 90 per cent with the investigators but that 10 
per cent, that quality control process of getting a draft manuscript, making sure that 
actually they, their methodology, you know, a classic example is that their 
methodology is as it was in their protocol and as per ethics, they haven’t deviated.  ] 
Is it the correct sample size?  Have they mentioned the Trust in in and the proper 
funding as, as per contract etc etc so it’s a, it’s not a rigorous scientific critique of the 
paper but it’s a quality control governance check if you like that we do and we get, 
we get the R&D Director to sign that off don’t we as well?

R2:	We do, and we get an independent statistician to look at the stats section to 
make sure that they sort of followed what they said they were going to do. I mean it 
doesn’t do hugely in depth, but he will make, you know, reassure us that it’s as it 
should be.

I:	Is that, has that, how has that process gone exactly?  Have you 
considered, has that, has extending QA into like publications do you feel like 
it’s, it’s generally been well received and like gone smoothly or has it been like 
difficult to sell?  I’m just, that’s like a relatively unique, relatively unique I feel 
like I’ve heard so I’m interested to hear like how it’s gone.  

R2:	I think we, we’ve had, how many since we’ve implemented [R1], 3 or 4? 

R1:	Yeah.

R2:	Yeah.

R1:	I think so.

R2:	And it’s like with all investigators, you know, it’s not something else for us to 
do. We’re putting another step in the process. 

I:	Uh-huh.

R2:	But on the whole it’s been positive, I think it;’s-,

R1	Yeah, I think we’ve, I think with a lot of these things we were helped by the 
fact that it was actually a finding in our last MHRA inspection, so it gave us that 
weight, so it wasn’t just us saying, ‘We’d like to do this because it’s the right thing to 
do. Actually, it’s something that we all picked up on and, you know, very, to give you 
a classic example it’s just, it’s that quality control thing that actually, you know, 
someone copies and pastes from a previous publication in the same area of disease 
and forgets to proofread it, you know and you find actually it’s got the wrong sample 
size in it, it’s got whatever.  That will obviously be picked up when it’s, you know, 
critiqued and reviewed and all the rest of it but it was that embarrassment factor 
really of actually, we, we’re sponsoring the study. We should, we should have had 
oversight of that, and we should have picked that issue up.  We’ll probably still miss 
certain things because we’re not clinical but we’ve got a safety net, we’ve got the, 
we’ve got the clinician as the R&D Director, we’ve got our very basic, you know, ten 
point or whatever it is QC check and I think that will evolve over time as we get more 
and more of those through but I think like [R2] says, it’s probably seems a bit of a 
chore but actually we’re, we’re thankful that we can say well actually it’s an MHRA, 
we’ve been told to do this, it’s part of our MHRA Cappa [um] so.

I:	Great so we’ve talked  a lot so far about things that have worked, you 
know, processes that have improved and worked really well that you’ve put in 
place but I assume, you know, as things change and you adapt to first this EU 
stuff, then the EU stuff going away, then you know, the MHRA Make It Public 
strategy is sort of also changing a lot of or might change a lot, some of the 
requirements around some of these things.  Have there been any like sort of 
things you’ve implemented that, you know, you needed to iterate and change 
like it sort of didn’t work right the first time and you needed to, like what, or 
like have there been significant barriers stood along the way that have sort of 
made things not work as smoothly as you might like?

R2:	I think at the moment it’s, it’s the old thing of the response and interaction of 
investigators.  I don’t mean to sound as though I’m blaming them but, you know, you 
can only be as good as the response you get and no matter how much you chase 
something up sometimes, it doesn’t always work and you don’t always get the end 
result and I think we always know as things change, it’s going to be a changing 
process isn’t it [R1], I mean we’re always tweaking processes and and we will do, 
continue to do so as, as the requirements, you know, changes so-, 

R1:	No just to add to that [R2] I think you’re right that one of the things that we’re 
conscious of is that yes, we’re trying to hit this target of getting 100 per cent 
transparency so we will throw whatever we can at it to make sure we do it but one, 
we did that as a reaction to, you know, the Parliamentary issues and all of those 
sorts of things but it shouldn’t ever get to that point where it’s just, oh someone’s 
given us a kick up the backside so we’re gonna, we’re gonna spend six months on 
this. It should be a continuous process, so I think that’s part of what we’ve learnt but 
also I think there is a point where if it isn’t a two-way interaction with the investigators 
then it lessens the credibility of that task in a strange way because the investigators 
think, ‘Well that’s R&D QA team, they’ll get on with it  you know, it just comes out the 
other end and I don’t have to do anything with it.” So, I think that’s something which 
we’ve got to be careful with. We’ve done a little bit of that when we were trying to get 
our percentage up to 80 but there are 1 or 2 that are left are the ones that we 
physically cannot intervene on because we, we’re not-,

I:	For one reason or another yeah.

R1:	Yeah, yeah.

R2:	Mm.

R1:	So it will always have to be a team approach with the clinicians and I think 
that’s probably where our next phase is gonna have to be is that we’ve got all the 
paperwork that says yes you will adhere to this, you will do this, this and this but how 
do we get that relationship up with them to such an extent that they’ve got the 
resource and the time to put into this and then that leads onto the whole issue of, 
you know, the seriousness of which you take this which is [internet connection lost]

R2:	He’s frozen.

R1:	I was frozen.

R2:	Yeah.

I:	You’re back now so you were saying the seriousness of which you take 
it and then it cut off.

R1:	Yeah so, we talked about the seriousness in terms of should we implement 
any sanctions as a sponsor.

R2:	Yeah, mm.

R1:	So, you know, again we do, we’re not a sponsor that, we’re an academic 
sponsor or an NHS sponsor, we don’t really have the power to sort of say, we’re 
going to cut your funding off or we’re not going to do this. It’s not in our best interest 
to some degree but, you know, there are things that we could do that might help 
smooth that path but we always use that as a last resort. You know, I don’t, I don’t 
really want to be in position to say we’re not gonna sponsor any more of your work. 
We’re not gonna do this and this because actually weighing it up that could be even 
more detrimental.

I:	Mhm.

R2:	Yeah, we’re there to facilitate research aren’t we and encourage it so it would 
be a big step to take.

I:	But those are in a, in a drastic situation those sort of are on the table 
now nowadays

R2:	Yeah.

I:	in a, in a disagreeable but drastic situation.

R2:	Yeah.

I:	So just on a mechanics question so if I am registering, like I need to 
upload my information to EudraCT on the, on the initial, you know, XML file 
that gets sent off to MHRA or the results or say I’m, you know, registering on 
the ISRCTN or the clincialtrials.gov or wherever, is that something like as the 
PI am I or someone on my team, my study team, the actual one doing that 
aspect or is any of that actually like done by, so I know you said you’re the 
administrator on the ClinicalTrials.gov account, is that just you giving them 
access to then register it themselves essentially.  

R1:	Yeah.

I:	And it works the same way with the EUCTR and the EudraCT?

R2:	Yeah.

I:	Okay is there any sort of training or resource that offered that people, so 
they know how to use them or is just pretty much based on like their familiarity 
with it or that they, like is their responsibility to sort of understand how to use 
those systems?

R2:	The later I think, yes, we don’t have any training in place. It was very much a 
steep learning curve for all of us actually but [laughs]  no definitely the latter is, you 
know, their responsibility to learn how to access these things and how to-,

R1:	Yeah, I mean it’s not, it’s not a great rationale but 

R2:	Mm.

R1:	the vast bulk of the certainly the CTIMPs ones are quite a closed circle of 
people that within certain academic areas that within our teams that we work on so 
you will get the same PIs who should be more familiar with the system as they go on 
but we don’t I don’t think, we don’t offer any sort of formalised step by step 
screenshots of this is what you should do. Having said that, you know, we we do 
work very closely with some of the investigators so we would just basically get them 
round the table, and we’d go through the form with them.

R2:	Mm.

R1:	So when that’s happened on several occasions so it’s not, it’s not a 100 per 
cent true we leave them to their own devices.

I:	Gotcha.

R1:	They do get some support but it’s not, I would say not formalised.

I:	It’s individualised, like they can come to you with questions that you’re 
then happy 

R1:	Yeah.

I:	and they tend to be aware like your resource that they can go to with 
those, with those issues, yeah.

R1:	Yeah.

R2:	Yeah.

I:	Great and then can you talk a little bit about sort of like what did, does 
the like, like top level support at your institution look like, how do they view 
these, you know, aspects as a priority so like some of these things involve 
you, you guys, you know, this is a tension, there’s always a tension between 
imposing more requirements on the PIs and but not overburdening them. Is 
there any like how does the support look like from the, from, you know, a level 
above, sort of maybe you [R1] or multiple levels above you for implementing 
some of these new measures and for these new steps in the process, you 
know, what does that look like?

R1:	I think it’s a case of that there’s that trust that we would get on with it and 
we’re doing what we’re doing.  One of the things that we did, I can’t remember when 
it was but when everything hit the fan so to speak and there was a big explosion of 
this, we did get quite a lot of communication down from our Chief Exec who was 
interested in, you know, not being called in front of Parliament basically so we did get 
quite a lot of, you know, where are we at? Can you give us an update?”  And what 
we used to do very, very simply was we would do a screenshot of the EUtracker for 
example or really good graphic that we could visualise and say to the, to the 
Executive team, “This is where we’re at.” And what we do as well, [R2] would do a 
little mini report that would provide a forecast of where we were gonna be, so I think 
from a operational level we got that support as in backhanded support, as in get this 
done, basically.

I:	Mm okay.

R1:	But in terms of actual support of the mechanics of, you know, put this system 
in place, it’s left to us to do that to achieve it and that’s where the R&D Director 
would come in and say and we pretty much operationalise that through the oversight 
group by, by saying, “Look, we’ve got Professor X who hasn’t done what he should 
be doing? How do you want us to take this forward, you know, do we write to them? 
Do we give them another month?” you know, those sorts of things so I think I think it 
would be unfair to say there isn’t any support. There is support for research in 
general.

I:	Sure yeah.

R1:	But, but when it comes down to the specifics of transparency, policy or any of 
the SOPs around that they, they’re not necessarily gonna want to see what we’re 
doing other than what’s the results; are we, are we actually achieving what we 
should be doing?

I:	Great and that oversight that sponsor like oversight committee is that 
that’s been in place for a long, you know, that’s not a new development that’s 
always sort of been in place or is that, or is that relatively new?

R1:	When was that? [Within the past few years].

R2:	Yes [within the past few years].

I:	Oh so that’s a relatively new development.

R2:	It was fairly new yes, yeah.

I:	Ah okay was that sort of in response to some of this stuff that happened 
over the last couple of years or is that just sort of a natural thing that arose 
other, otherwise?

R1:	It came, it came again out of our [recent] inspection for the MHRA 
predominately but then actually it was the, it was the appropriate place to tie in the 
transparency work as well so very early on we made the decision in our terms of 
reference to look at the transparency issues and make sure they were on a standing 
agenda item for that.  So, at the moment it’s a bit of, that that item is pretty much 
stuck at [the current] per cent with a couple of studies where we’re pulling our hair 
out, you know, ‘where, where do we go with this?’ type thing but yeah-,

I:	Are those very old studies just I assume they’re like very old ones yeah.

R2:	Yeah.

R1:	Yeah.

R2:	We have a bit of an issue as well with, with our percentage, I mean I don’t 
know probably shouldn’t talk numbers, but we do have an issue with some studies 
we had quite a, a flux of studies that actually started but they didn’t take off really. 
There was no reasonable data to get, we ended them prematurely because there 
was no recruitment or somebody left and there weren’t the resources to, to backfill 
this person and you can’t sort of get these off the system because you can’t load any 
data and I’ve put a letter on saying, an explanation onto the EudraCT website 
explaining why there was no data but they’re constantly there and I know they were 
going to look at this. It wasn’t just our problem, it seems to be fairly common problem 
so we have things like that that are affecting our numbers and I know this isn’t all 
about numbers but it, it does exist and we’re never going to, at this point in time 
never going to have a 100 per cent because of these studies.
There’s [ a few] studies isn’t there [R1] that applies to, so sorry that was just a little 
bit of an interlude I know but just to explain the numbers really.

I:	Yeah so great so we’re approaching the end here and I just wanted to do 
a few have a few more questions here so we talked a little bit about, we’ve, 
we’ve chatted about quite a bit about, you know, the impact that that 
Parliamentary committee had and how, you know, you plan to adapt to the new 
HRA strategy.  Just to touch really quickly on Brexit and moving away from the 
EudraCT system that, you know, no new registrations will be going through 
that that system anymore as of this year, has that sort of impacted, like how, 
have you needed to move and adapt to that yet or is still too early and you 
haven’t really had to change anything as a result of that yet and you’re still 
sort of waiting for any more?

R2:	Yeah, I would say that’s our situation [R1] wouldn’t you?

R1:	Yeah.

R2:	Yeah.

I:	Okay great and the last area I touch on, I like to touch in these is just so 
when new developments sort of in these areas occur when there’s no 
requirements or things like that what is your route and mechanism for hearing, 
hearing about them, like, you know, if something were to change about the 
requirements or the HRA gave more information about lay summaries that 
they’re expecting, things like that what would be the ways that you would hear 
about those?

R1:	So, we, MHRA will be the blog, MHRA blog that we, we sign up to and we get 
the daily, daily emails on those. HRA updates again, HRA newsletters part of the 
R&D forum as well we get messages via that. And we’d also I think from my 
perspective I would probably hear about it at some of the networking events so part 
of the UKRD which is the, the group of R&D Directors and R&D Managers 
networking nationally so it would probably be brought up there as agenda item and 
depending on the, on what the change was as well, they, that group sometimes 
offers speakers to come in and do training and do sort of seminars on what the 
changes involve etc etc. 
We also have locally within [our local area a clinical research network], we have 
something called [name of org] which is all the R&D managers across [multiple local] 
organisations and every quarter we also get the HRA representative to come and 
give us a what’s changed this month or what’, what’s coming. Regulatory update if 
you like and I do recall some of the transparency stuff coming through that route 

I:	Interesting.

R1:	via, via the HRA.

R2:	Yeah.

I:	And so it sounds like these networks, like you mentioned the R&D forum 
and you mentioned this local…network those are sort of pretty important for 
like keeping on top of things and yeah.

R1:	Yeah

I:	And then what, sorry go ahead please.

R2:	No, no we always try and attend the symposium as well, the MHRA 
symposium ‘cos that often you hear about things but that often clarifies it for you, you 
know, they go into things that you’ve read about or you’ve heard about that they can, 
they can dot the i’s and cross the t’s.  

I:	And what about peer contact so what like have you heard from your 
peer institute, like do you have communications either within or outside of, 
you know, something like the R&D forum where you share knowledge and best 
practice or if you questions, does that, does that occur at all?

R:	Yeah, I mean I think that’s probably what this [local group] is really for.

I:	Okay.

R:	So, we get, they invite speakers to give a bit of a session but it’s, it’s 
predominately also about you know, tell us who’s doing what with that.  Has anyone 
implemented it yet? So, it’s a forum where we can raise questions and go, we, we’re 
stuck on this.  So, we might go to that forum and say, “We’ve got lots of studies that 
terminated early, you know, do they want to know how we get round that, how we 
report it, how we notify?” so there’s  a lot of that happening I think through those 
sorts of groups but I suppose the only disadvantage with that is it’s almost about it 
being an issue for everyone, you know, there isn’t, there isn’t a huge amount of time 
to go through everyone’s sort of list of issues that they have so it has to be such a 
prominent issue that affects, you know, 80, 90 per cent of the people for it to be 
discussed almost. It’s not that frequent but that, that is definitely a forum for that.

I:	Mhm and then yeah so the very last question for a NHS organisation that 
I like to ask for the Trust, so you’re obviously University Trust so you have 
some connection to the local University does that, how does that relationship 
manifest in any of your like SOPs, like is there because I assume some stuff 
kind of gets, is there co-sponsorship with the University or is there some stuff 
is going on at the Trust but it’s sponsored through the University, like and 
what does your role in that sort of research look like?

R1:	Yeah, I mean it’s again, CTIMPs there’s no University sponsorship for 
CTIMPs, always, always diverts to the Trust currently.  There’s no co-sponsorship 
despite the fact that probably 90 per cent of the CTIMP work is university employed 
academics.

I:	Okay.

R1:	so they, you know, it’s not a criticism but they are risk-averse, you know, they, 
they don’t have the structure in place to do that at the moment. For non-CTIMPs 
there is a movement towards some of the work being sponsored by the University 
and it’s largely on a case by case basis [internet connection lost]

R2:	He’s gone again.

I:	Mm.

R1:	Back.

I:	So a case by case basis. 

R1:	Yeah so, it’s assessed on a case by case basis.  In terms of the processes 
and how they interact between the two it hasn’t happened yet

I:	Okay.

R1:	 and I think probably along with some of the finances side of things the 
University have probably got a fairly robust system for publications because of their 
Research Excellence Frameworks and all the things they have to report on for that 
sort of stuff so it’s something that we will I think have to unify at some level. I think 
there’s some to put it into context there’s some bigger discussions ongoing about 
trying to create a Joint Research Office.

I:	Ah okay.

R:	And that, that would be with the idea of not necessarily a physical building that 
everyone sits in but a unifying of those processes and taking the best bits from both 
sides.  I think if you put it into a very brief description, NHS is very, very from our 
point of view is very good at the, the GCP, the compliance bits all those sorts of 
things where the University [infrastructure isn’t equipped for this element] and then 
you might need to change that and say the University’s got more robust publication 
issue policies and things that we need to learn from so there’s, there’s a natural 
marriage that we could have probably have.

I:	And there’s a model for that, some other institutions have those joint 
sort of research office. Great so that is all my questions today.  If there’s 
anything else, any final think you’d like to note or mention or anything I didn’t 
ask that you’d like to comment on?

R1:	Not that I can think of.

R2:	No.

I:	Okay, great.





