
I:	Excellent okay great so just to get things started can you first just 
quickly give me a bit about your role and your role at your organisation?

R:	Okay so I’m [head of the research office] which basically means Head of R&D 
from a regulatory perspective, so my team are responsible for sponsorship setting up 
studies and monitoring quality of studies.

I:	And how long have you worked in this area?

R:	I’ve been within R&D for about [over 15 years].

I:	Okay great and yeah so if you have you always been at the same 
organisation or have you worked in other organisations in the past.  

R:	I’ve worked at other organisations.

I:	Yeah, so just to say if at any point it’s useful for you to sort of draw a 
contrast or draw an experience from either other organisations, comparisons 
or contrasts or how things have changed over time I’m happy to hear about 
those as well if you’d like to draw on that during any of your responses. It 
doesn’t just have to be limited to your current organisation though that’s 
mainly what we’re gonna be talking about but if that’s useful, I’m happy to hear 
about that as well.

R:	Okay.

I:	So can you talk about how sort of your office, your R&D office at the, at 
the organisation sort of fits into the broader like trials transparency, like how 
do you manage trials transparency just broadly.  We get into more details later 
but sort of what does that look like in terms of like at your organisation.

R:	This organisation is very large, spread out across [multiple] hospitals now so 
from that perspective, [my office] is the central hub and then we have [research 
teams] out in the various hospitals and they have shall we say more of the personal 
contact with, with the researchers especially obviously at this current time so 
although the research office has the regulatory responsibilities for transparencies 
then some of that is delegated. So for example, if we’re looking at registering a trial 
it’s the [research team] who are responsible for registering it that my office will 
oversee that it has been done so we’ll chase them to make sure it is registered if we 
haven’t got, you know, an ID number or any acknowledgement on our central, 
centralised system to say that trial has been registered. From that perspective as 
well obviously we do try and chase up at the end of a study as to reports that have 
gone in and obviously any publications that been made but it’s probably, you know, if 
you’re looking into transparency, it’s not an ideal situation because often that is, you 
know, something that might get dropped if we’re really pressurised etc.  We know it’s 
not ideal but it’s, if you’ve got a limited staff resource or then that is often how we 
what will happen because from that perspective if the Chief Investigator of a study, 
the responsibility would sit, should sit with them for actual publishing and, you know, 
the study because it’s for their academic advancement as well as obviously patient 
care that we’re doing these studies so there is that expectation that it’s, it should be 
the Chief Investigator driving that aspect. I probably say in the last two to three years 
we have emphasised that more to Chief Investigators etc that they need to, it’s their 
responsibility to do that and if they don’t or if they, you know, need to stop a study 
without finalising the prot-, you know, finishing the protocol, the original protocol, 
then we would do want a good explanation as to why and in fact something with well 
we’re mid-instigation at the moment is to make sure that shall we say there’s 
potential penalties for those researchers that don’t comply with our expectations and 
obviously the general HRA expectations.  So, in other words if they don’t complete 
appropriate transparency on a study then we’ll consider not sponsoring future 
studies that they’re leading on and that sort of thing, so we have tightened up on 
that.  I have to say, a few years ago we weren’t sort of chasing up on these sorts of 
things but we definitely are now.

I:	Excellent, yeah great and I’ll dig in and follow up a few aspects of that 
sort of as we move on.  Just to, but just to quickly touch on one thing 
immediately on that, what sort of was there an inciting incident or a specific 
pressure or you know, influence that led to sort of this change that, you know, 
to take that step to be a little bit more proactive and following up on some of 
these reporting and registration and transparency requirements over the last 
couple of years.

R:	Yeah so, you know, it was the, it was the pressure from the HRA and 
obviously we’ve had the instance where it was the CTIMPs and making sure that  
trials on the EudraCT were uploaded and unfortunately [we performed poorly], on 
that specifics and, you know, it in some ways it is a struggle because of the nature of 
the studies that we often will support and also the circumstances of our Trust so we 
had difficulties around that simply because we’d just [restructured] and what we 
found is [one of our sites] did not have good records of what had happened and it, it 
was very difficult shall we say. 
So we had the difficulty of [restructuring] and then just the practical difficulties, you 
know, my staff were going round in circles with the EudraCT trying to get things 
uploaded and we just couldn’t get access to some of the systems you know, we 
couldn’t, and it was, we’d go from, you know, one, we’d get, we’d get somebody’d 
respond to an email and they’d say, “Go to such and such,” and we’d go to them and 
you’d just go round in a circle just and even when we did manage to get access 
sometimes because it was a set field that you had to respond to and complete again, 
it didn’t always quite match with how, you know, I mean they’re made for, you know, 
you’ve got your two or three hundred participant commercial trial. That’s, you know, 
really the basis for that whereas we were sponsoring some studies that were low 
numbers, rare diseases, you know, small cohorts, you were never gonna get those 
numbers but from our perspective we wanted some evidence to say what, you know, 
these patients are being treated with is, you know, positive or negative because we 
do a lot of [studies in areas with smaller populations] so there won’t be the patient 
cohorts, you know, within the UK to deal with that but obviously you’re looking for a 
way forward in their treatment so some of those sort of smaller studies just didn’t fit 
into the grid of a natural CTIMP for the Eu-, EudraCT reporting. So I mean what we 
found it was a lot easier when we learnt that we could upload publications because 
often that we’d got publications, but we just haven’t got, you know, there weren’t we 
hadn’t uploaded the data as they wanted in the system so when we knew that there 
was for the older trials, we could just upload a publication that was great news for us 
I have to say.

I:	Good okay and just real to touch, just for context, the portfolio of your, 
of the whole Trust, the, that’s like, so I assume that contains both CTIMPS and 
non-CTIMPs

R:	Yes.

I:	and roughly like, you don’t need to give me the exact number but just 
like ballpark, like how many trials would you say are being actively like 
overseen at a, at given point in time generally?

R:	Oh trials?

I:	Like really rough estimate, you can ballpark it, very round-,

R:	I’d probably say it’s about 50 to maybe 50 to 60 if we count the four 
categories, top four categories

I:	Yeah.

R:	out of our sponsored studies. 

I:	Okay yeah and then one question I like to ask people, a slight change of 
pace, we’ll come back to some of the more organisational details in a bit but 
one I like to ask people just sort of at this stage and get us thinking also along 
these line is could you explain to me in your own words sort of why do, why 
are there sort of requirements and responsibilities and ethical responsibilities 
laid out there for the registration and reporting of clinical trials, just sort of in 
your own words, why do we have these requirements, why are they seen as 
important?

R:	Okay I’d say from from a trial perspective if there’s an expectation that you 
think there’s a question to answer from a trial perspective, you the patients do you, 
you know, honour of actually participating in that, having lots of tests done, you 
know, their time and effort should be rewarded in publishing that results whether, you 
know, for positive or negative against, you know, whatever your initial hypothesis 
was so that 1) the evidence is out there for future treatment, 2) if it’s a negative one 
that somebody doesn’t re, redo that study somewhere along the lines and so I think, 
you know, there is that ethical imperative that you should publish. I’d also say if 
you’re talking about transparency it’s only common courtesy that if you’ve got 20 or 
40 patients in a study that you actually tell them the outcome of that whether that’s in 
person at their next visit, in a newsletter, in we’ve, we’ve had, some of our studies 
we’ve had, you know, general meetings afterwards where the Chief Investigators 
presented to the patient cohort etc so I think, you know, there’s, there’s various ways 
you can do it but if you’re asking them to participate then you should tell them what’s 
happened at the end.

I:	Great and what about registration, like what do you think to 
justifications and reasons for registration are?

R:	From a registration, I think it’s just a matter of so that people don’t repeat 
something that’s obviously concurrent because it’s not just they should do that 
review prior to actually setting their own protocol up but obviously if it’s not published 
then if there’s a title at least then they can check that out as well.

I:	Great so pivoting back to sort of, some of the details of how these 
things actually work, so if I’m a PI at one of your [hospitals] in your 
organisation and I want to start a trial like I want, I have an idea for a trial, 
perhaps I’ve secured some funding and I wanna go ahead, what, what like 
what does the sort of interaction look like mainly focusing on these 
transparency elements like these start-up, he’s getting registered and making 
sure that all happens. Like what is that sort of look like as a member of like 
someone who’s seeking sponsorship and getting sponsorship from your, from 
the, your office, what does that start-up process look like for me and how, how 
would I go about registering a trial?

R:	Okay so we, if we’re looking at someone writing a grant then the [research 
team] has people who will advise about what a grant is, what we need to do for that, 
for that grant. We have, if it’s a trial then and that they want us to sponsor, we have a 
committee that will look at that particular trial. Prior to that we’ve got guidance and 
they’ll have actually met with both the [research team] and the sponsorship team to 
go through what the trials about, you know, what they’ll need, how are they going to 
go about it and obviously part of that conversation are it’s sort of the regulatory 
aspects of what they need to do and who will do what for them about registering and 
about our expectations about you know, publication and involvement of participants 
depending what funding scheme they’re going for. 

I:	Sure.

R:	We have a very active patient and public engagement team called [name 
removed] so they’ll probably be involved in the grant process.  Part of that is making 
sure that, you know, that patient interaction and participant interaction is good. So in 
some respects it depends how that person is in their career progression. If they’ve 
done lots of trials, they’ll know the principles. If they’re a newbie, we do quite a bit of 
hand holding in in the process so we advise and we tell them what they should be 
doing etc and we see that as if they’re a new person we want to develop them along 
the right lines so they think the right way and understand our expectations as 
sponsor because we find if we do a lot of work on that first trial that they do, it saves 
us a lot of subsequent work than all the others so it’s learning process I’d say.  

I:	Sure and is that interaction so if you’re dealing with someone less 
experienced who hasn’t sort of done this before and, you know, if it’s a C-, 
CTIMP, well not anymore but prior to just a few months ago they would have to 
have dealt with the European infrastructure and they would have had to dealt 
with HRA requirements and infrastructure and things like that.  Is that 
interaction sort of coming with your central office or with the people sort of at 
their, their, the main hospital that they’re sort of interested in, like where’s that 
first level of interaction coming from?

R:	The, the shall we say the day-to-day interaction is with the [research team], 
but the regulatory interaction is with the central research office. So, from that 
perspective if we were looking at in the last sort of couple of years, we, we have 
changed the structure slightly in the fact that non-CTIMP sponsorship responsibilities 
used to sit out with the research teams. We’re just develop, we’re developing the 
sponsorship team that’s centrally and so that all sponsorship is, is dealt with primarily 
with the central office.  However, the CTIMP side of trials it always, well for last ten 
years, but the actual oversight of that.  So, for example, when the, you know, 
EudraCT was submitted and, you know, documents to MHRA that was done by the 
central research office rather than the clinician’s group and their group just to make 
sure that we had that oversight of everything that was going in. 
So we had an MHRA inspection in [the early 2010s] and from the comments that we 
got there, we decided to centralise it to have that control so we’ve, we keep that so 
for example the study team will work on the protocol etc but that, the sponsorship 
team will review all that prior to myself signing off for submission to HRA so that we 
have all that aspect covered.  
We also make sure that all the different aspects of things that we want from a 
sponsor, we have workflows within documentation to make sure that all these things 
are covered prior to signing off and sending to ethics.  So basically, we do, we don’t 
leave things to after ethics, we try and do things up front so that when we submit to 
ethics we just need to respond to the comments and then basically we’re ready to 
start the trial as soon as we get HRA approval. 

I:	Excellent, okay great and is the idea generally that your it’s like the 
expectation being communicated that registration should be prospective like 
before enrolment?

R:	Yes, absolutely yeah.  So, so we’ll always check because of-, often it’s been, 
you know, quite a while, we will, one of the, when I say we, we work on task based 
work flows so one of the tasks on a sponsored trial is register you know, on the 
relevant websites so we, so we can check that and then obviously if we’ve if they’ve 
come, if someone has completed that task we’ll check that we actually have, you 
know, a relevant ID numbers and we know exactly which website it is that they’ve 
registered on.

I:	Great.

R:	So, we do have that, so we will know at the point where we confirm capacity 
and capability whether that registration has actually taken place and they’ve got 
another or whether it’s in, in progress because obviously sometimes they’ll say, “Oh 
we’ve applied but we just haven’t got anything back yet.”

I:	So, it’s, it’s actually like for you, for the way it’s sort of built in to your 
procedures

R:	Yes.

I:	that’s like a box that needs to be checked before you can even enrol 
your first patient?

R:	Yeah.

I:	Okay great and do you find that works, that works well, like you’re 
happy with sort of how that works and-?

R:	I think it works relatively well. I’m, I’m not saying a 100 per cent, you know, 
because there’s always, you know, something that sneaks by, but I think I’m, I’m 
relatively comfortable that we’ve got that working well.

I:	Mhm and for things, so now, nowadays things, there will be nothing 
appearing on the EudraCT system anymore so with that in mind, what, so you 
you work for the regulatory for MHRA submissions and things like that, you 
centralise that.  What if it’s either a non-CTIMP or under the new system if 
they’re using a registry like clinicaltrials.gov or the ISRCTN, does that then sit 
with the study team or would that also sit with your office?  

R:	Well again if it’s classed as the top four, if it’s a non-CTIMP, it’s still will, it’s 
the same process so that, that won’t be any different.  I think obviously the difference 
is we just need, we need to, shall we say, the oversight that we provide for CTIMPs, 
just for the nature of what a CTIMP is, it’s often a lot closer oversight from the central 
team and the expectation is that the research team will update progress on the 
actual website as to how they go along because they’re, they’re the one who knows 
the detail as to where they are in that progression and, again, I think it’s better in 
some teams than others how much they progress.  But it is something that we are 
now sort of regularly checking that about if a study is if a trial is closing, you know, 
that they make sure that that is updated, and we are, do a regular check every so 
often as to what is the status of our trials on the various websites so we’re doing that 
to make sure it’s done. 

I:	So just so, I’m clear so I know that makes perfect sense but just to make 
sure I’m clear so as like the person so say you have a trial registered on 
clincialtrials.gov is the person interfacing with clincialtrials.gov like is it your 
team prompting someone from the study team to do that or is it actually 
someone from your team who’s the one saying, “Oh is, this trial is it done?” 
and they say, “Yes,” and then someone from your office goes and actually 
does the, the changing and the PRS back end system of clinical trials.gov.  

R:	Yeah, so it, it’s the [research team] that will do the changes.

I:	Okay.

R:	It’s my team that will make sure that it’s not done, you know, that we chase it 
and we make sure that it is done. Obviously, there might be some instances where 
we assist the chief investigator to make sure it is updated so I mean obviously it’s 
not, so we ignore it but if it needs help because obviously if people have come and 
gone and if somebody’s not registered so they don’t have access to the system, 
we’ll, we’ll happily sit with a researcher and update them because my staff have got 
that, a number of them have got access rights so that we can update the systems.

I:	Great and then you mentioned earlier in my initial question when you 
were sort of discussing, you were talking about you’ve been a lot more 
proactive about, in recent years about following up about results and trying to 
get your hands on publications when they come out and just keep track of all 
that, these sorts of what happens with results dissemination?  So could you 
talk about your experience with that, sort of how that’s worked so far since 
you’ve started to try to like, you know, has there been any pushback or have 
there been any difficulties in trying to get like get those.  You said, you 
mentioned staffing being one problem where if you don’t have the time that 
might be a thing that gets held up less which, you know, is absolutely valid 
and then, you know, are there other, are there other things as well as you’ve 
interacted with investigators or you’ve tried to manage such a large 
organisation where like, you know, just difficulties you’ve seen as you’ve tried 
implement this?

R:	Yeah so I mean, so I mean it is, it is, you like anybody some investigators are 
more engaged than others and more responsive than others and obviously as we 
are shall we say a bit more remote from you know, because we don’t sit with them, 
it’s not as though we chat daily with them etc then sometimes getting responses 
back can be difficult so and yet, you know, others are very responsive so I think 
that’s it, it’s dealing with the individuals involved, I think that’s the, the sort of 
challenging thing and I think it’s just sometimes I find it’s, it’s in the nature of 
research in the fact you’ll finish the patient interaction, you might, you’ll do the 
analysis, you send a final report to ethics and then, you know, you’ll look  
somewhere to publish. You send it to a publication so it’s also sort of, you know, that 
time lag that you get, you know, naturally get when, you know, you’ve finished your 
actual work but you’re doing the analysis and then preparing it for publication etc 
that, you know, it’s making sure that you do follow up to the, you know, to that 
publication.  I mean sometimes we find that unfortunately people can, you know, be 
like a couple of years before something comes out and I, I didn’t actually mention, I 
should have mentioned, we got together a transparency group [a few months ago] to 
look at how we could improve things and on that we’ve got an investigator to make 
sure that we’ve got, you know, a researcher’s views on how we might improve things 
and what we might need to do.  So, one of the things that we are hoping to instigate 
I’ll probably say in the next year because we’re still trying to get lots of our studies 
restarted, we haven’t finished all that yet.  

I:	Sure.

R:	What we’re trying to do is get, get a website so that what we didn’t want was 
to lose the patient, the participant aspect in telling them about what’s happened and 
so some of what that, that group have looked at is how can we tell the patients 
because obviously you can tell the patients a rough outline of what has happened in 
the study prior to full publication in a journal. So that’s one of the things that we’re 
thinking of doing within the website, you know, our own website is have a page 
where we’ll have our studies and say, and put just a small bit about ‘oh this is what 
happened’ and obviously if we have a full publication put in the link if it’s publicly 
available so that people if they want that sort of detail they can look at it but just so 
that we’ve got something where if somebody thinks ‘oh I was in that study, I wonder 
if they’ve got any information?’ that they can go on the website and look at that sort 
of thing so we’re sort of developing it at the moment deciding what is the key 
information that we put on there and that in a way is a bit of a stopgap. 
But the other side it will also cover the studies where, for example, we’re sponsor but 
the relatively small studies or, you know, yes they might be for the benefit for our 
patients but maybe it’s very “our Trust-centric” shall we say in how we do things and 
those types of things are obviously the ones that are harder to get any public proper 
formal publication in the public arena so we thought well as we’ve got quite a number 
of those types of studies, we’ll make sure that we’ve got somewhere to put those 
results rather than you know, them just dwindling away so that’s the idea.  Obviously, 
I think some of that will depend on what the HRA come up with because if theirs is 
similar then it might be that we just put links to the HRA page, to the relevant study 
but as we haven’t quite heard what their website is going to be like then I think we’ll 
probably just push ahead for our patients.  

I:	Well so I’m wondering though did you think like the registries could 
serve that purpose because, you know, like even though no new stuff will 
appear on the EudraCT system, older results can be put there and then the 
ISRCTN and clinicaltrials.gov which I assume are the other two that would be 
most of your reg-, anything that’s registered would appear on

R:	Yeah.

I:	 one of those two would have spaces to sort of put results in one, in 
some form or another or are there issues that would prevent you from not 
wanting to put them there, I guess that’s what’s of interest to me?

R:	Yeah, I think the issue that I have is the fact that there isn’t a single database. 
So, if, if we’re, we’re looking at it from shall we say a participant perspective, if they 
want to find it then it’s like how would they know which three websites to look for. 
And then should they be spending their time trawling, ‘Oh I’ve looked at one, it’s not 
on there. I’ll look at that one, I’ll look at that one.’ So, I suppose that that was part of 
the reasoning why we thought we’d do something so that if, if they were [a patient at 
our Trust] they’d come to [our Trust] and then they, you know, it could go, then we’d 
put the links in.  So I think that is one of, I’d say that’s a challenge because it’s like, 
well you know, just also if, I have say from a management perspective it’s a pain 
because you’ve not got to just check that  you’ve got one website up to date from a 
sponsor perspective, you’ve got to check all three of those just to go, ‘Okay, that 
one’s on that one, that trial’s on that one,’ and so actually if you’ve got one single 
place to go to look for results and to make sure that we’re up to date etc, obviously it 
makes it a lot easier.

I:	Right.

R:	Plus, the fact is it’s, you know, just from a resource perspective it’s like well 
okay who has access to clinicaltrials.gov to, you know, who can actually do 
something and get on there to upload.  So, I think that is one of the issues and then 
obviously making sure that the data that you’ve got is in line with what the website 
expectations are around, you know, what needs to uploaded. And I think that’s also 
one of the reasons why centrally we leave the updating to the research teams 
because across the [multiple] hospitals we’ve got [different focuses] as well as 
there’s more general hospitals, you know, updating shall we say disease specific 
things is across those specialities is not something that we can, we can do or have 
the expertise to do so that’s another reason why we, you know, we delegate it down 
to the research teams so that they can, you know, put something meaningful in there 
when they’re uploading them. Sorry, I’ve gone off track.  

I:	No, no, that was all gold to me. It was great stuff, very valuable, so let’s 
see some of these we’ve, we’ve touched on already, so I don’t wanna repeat. 
So as, you know, you’ve been in your position for a bit and you’ve seen 
different organisat-, how different organisations function and you’ve noted 
that sort of the changes in recent years were spurned by this interest from 
Parliament and from you know, the Parliamentary committee and and I’m 
wondering sort of like what the, like what is top level sort of support so like 
even above or like I don’t exactly know what the structure looks like so this 
maybe, maybe be coming from you and your office or is there levels above you 
that sort of, like what does the support look like for putting resource into, you 
know, creating this transparency group and things like that, you know, like 
what does that look like at your organisation?

R:	Well the, the Exec who’s in charge of the Research and Innovation in our 
Trust [description about past negative interaction with transparency issues removed 
as disclosive]. [They are] then obviously very much engaged in that so it is 
something that we include on our, we have [a committee on research governance] 
so it’s a question, it’s something that we, that meets quarterly and we’ll regularly put 
where we are with the sort of trials transparency, you know, that we’re obviously 
when we got to [high performance] on EudraCT and as part of that we also worked 
on clincialtrials.gov etc trying to move  get closer, you know, to [high performance] 
on those so it’s something that we are expected to  report on. Oh sorry [received call]

I:	No worries.

R:	Just let me [interview paused] 

I:	Excellent, welcome back. 

R:	Sorry about that. I’ve got this on my laptop, and I’ve got the sun coming in and 
I went and pressed the wrong blimin’ leave button so I don’t think I’ve been in a 
meeting when I’ve got a call before and not managed to shut it off.  So, this 
technology for you. It’s not good.

I:	Yeah, no worries at all. So I think we’re reaching sort of the last few 
questions I have here. We’ve touched on a lot of my potential questions sort of 
through some of our other conversations so one question, one sort of 
question in follow up, one thing of what we’ve talked about already.  So, you 
said, you mentioned how, you know, if someone’s having some difficulty, they 
don’t know how to use sort of clinicaltrials.gov or whatever in the, in that 
process, that sort of registration process. You know, you’d be happy to have 
someone from your office sit down with them sort of provide that, sort of sit 
with them, show them how it works, give them what they need.  Is there a sort 
of any more like well my first question is whose gen-, who’s generally doing 
that, is that like a Trial Manager or is that the PI or does it just vary based on 
the study team involved, like who’s the actual doing interfacing like with that?

R:	It, so the actual, the actual person who had probably upload that would be a 
Study Coordinator within the trial team. 

I:	Okay.

R:	The people giving the sort of support and help if they needed help would be 
my team, the sponsorship team.

I:	Okay.

R:	Simply because they they’ve done it a number of times, so they’ve got the 
experience and unfortunately the study coordinators are a group that there’s quite a 
relatively high turnover of staff. So, it is, you know, often you would need to do some 
training with them.

I:	And you just sort of do that on a one off more ad hoc, like if they ask for 
it they give it rather than it sort of being a proactive thing to give?

R:	Well within the Trust we have some training programmes that are specifically 
for study co-ordinators and actually some of the nurses come as well. And that 
covers, you know, whole series of topics.  Overall, it’s sort of two and a half days’ 
worth of training on, on various topics so one of those is, you know, one of the 
sessions is around sponsorship so that they understand what the role of the 
sponsorship team is within [the Trust] and the responsibilities that come with a 
sponsor.  Part of that is obviously transparency so we go through about who’s 
responsibility it is to register, how we work that, how it’s integrated. So, from that 
perspective people are trained on that but obviously there’s a difference between, 
you know, shall we say a teaching session and this is what’s required and an actual 
doing session.

I:	Sure, sure, sure.

R:	So then, then they know to come to sponsor team to, you know, if they, they 
get stuck, if they don’t know what they’re doing. That’s how we work it within the 
Trust so usually anybody who’s, who’s new to the Trust would be would go on that 
sort of within their first six months. So hopefully we capture people.

I:	Great and then they know who to ask and where to ask essentially if 
they’ve got issues?

R:	Yeah.

I:	Great.  So my last questions are just sort of about outside support, so, 
you know, keeping up like this space changes a bunch, new regulations, 
especially with recent developments with Brexit and things like that and the 
HRA like new guidance’s and the Make It Public stuff that they’re doing what is 
your sort of like process for hearing about, you know, when things change or 
when new regulations come into about, like how do you make sure you’re kept 
up to date on sort of the newest developments and what’s required. 

R:	Okay so a lot of it through the R&D forum. You know and keeping touch with 
their newsletters and obviously the HRA newsletter that they send out. I [take part in]  
the Research Champions group; I don’t know if you’d heard of that?

I:	Maybe in passing but if you want to elaborate that would be fine.  

R:	Yeah, so that is basically, it’s now run by the HRA and its basically quarterly 
meetings of representatives from each of the different network areas.  So we’re not 
network staff but we’re R&D staff and the champions basically is they’ll often have 
workshops to sound out what our views are or how we’re finding things or to 
introduce something and say what do you think about that?  How is it done?  But 
also, so that they can shape things before they’re brought out generally, but also 
they use that meeting to give updates from R&D forum from the CRN [NIHR Clinical 
Research Network], from NIHR so that they can have, you know, they’ve got 
representation from the R&D community about what is happening, you know, shall 
we say, I’ll say on a national level but it’s an English levels so.

I:	Sure.

R:	So that is part of you know, where we learn. I think the other side is because 
we want to link in with this then anything that HRA R&D forum have done around 
transparency, there’s been a couple of workshops then some of my sponsor team 
have sort of gone to those and we’ve learnt and for example I think there’s a two-day 
transparency conference in November coming up, things like that.  So it’s a virtual 
one so we’ll be, you know, enrolling on to that.  So that’s the sort of thing where 
we’re learning and I think because we’ve got quite good contacts with other R&D 
officers, you know, that’s quite useful so when we were having such difficulties 
around the EudraCT, you know, we were talking to somebody at [another Trust] who 
who’d managed to do it and got a few tips off them and it’s, so there is that sort of 
interaction about what, what is required and what what’s changing and because it’s 
such a hot topic then I think there is, there is sufficient information. So I know that for 
example, my sponsorship manager just forwarded a newsletter on transparency now 
that’s come out so it’s, it’s just sort of keeping up with that and what we do is we use 
this, the transparency committee to look at what’s coming out, what’s changing so 
that we can, we can look and say, ‘Well do, what do we want to focus on? Does that 
match with what we’ve already thought about doing?’ So it’s trying to, trying to be 
joined up.  I think the problem I have which is when, you know, when I was talking 
about having, transparency being on the group, research Governance committee 
agenda is it’s about staff resource because we’re just altered, as I said in the last 
couple of years, we’ve changed responsibilities and teams around then it’s 
potentially saying, ‘Well actually have we got enough resource for the spons-, to 
cover the sponsorship we’re doing?’  And, and so probably from a managerial 
perspective that’s my next aspect to say, “Well actually we’re doing, the set-ups fine, 
you know, they’re looking after a study while it’s done but actually we’re still probably 
need a bit more resource to do that final bit or to do it shall we say, I should say to do 
it, but I should say to do it to the standard I’d like it to be done.”

I:	To iterate it and do it better even, yeah.

R:	Yeah and I think that’s a, that’s a problem because, you know, it’s, if you look 
at sponsorship then you can’t put sponsorship costs in a lot of the grants that we 
have and yet the expectation is that you do need staff to do the sponsorship 
responsibilities and so that is, you know, part of what we’re trying to get right at the 
moment, making sure that actually people appreciate what sponsor is responsible 
for, appreciate that actually there’s a cost to that so if we, we need as we want to do 
it because we want to sponsor studies for our researchers, we need to think how we 
get some money back to do that.  Obviously, we can do it through, we get some 
through RCF [NIHR Research Capability Funding] etc but that it’s how much can you 
use for that sort of resource. Because not everything’s NIHR. [laughter]

I:	So I’m just gonna ask one final question here and then we’ll wrap up.  
The, I just wanted to know, so you’re without saying so just so I don’t have to 
go and redact this later, you’re obviously affiliated with your local, like there’s 
some connection to the local University what does that like relationship sort of 
look like and does that play into anything we’ve talked about today at all, like 
is there connections there or is there like a different any different processes or 
procedures that the University is involved or is just a Trust, like I just wanna 
make sure I understand how that relationship works because it’s not 
something I’ve been able to touch on a ton so far in my interviews. 

R:	So obviously we do work with our university colleagues, a lot of the activity is 
done via clinical academics. I’d probably say obviously because they’re academically 
led then they want to publish. I’d probably say some of the gaps on their side is 
about talking, you know, feeding back to patients. If I’m perfectly honest on the 
transparency agenda I’m not quite sure where they’re up to and what they’re doing. If 
I, to honest in the last year because of Covid etc then we’ve had a lot less interaction 
with the University because obviously but saying that I am, we I do know my 
governance colleagues and the sponsorship people very well.  In fact, we’re meeting 
with them this Friday and so, you know, it’s one of those things that I could probably 
pick-up, but I think from our, from our perspective then we expect the University to 
be pushing their employees about transparency, you know, we’ve talked quite a bit 
about lack of resource, so you don’t, I’m not spending my resource chasing up 
there’s. 
But I’d also say that obviously one of the things we need to say is a lot of the 
Universities, clinical studies will involve our patients so there’s that imperative that 
we probably need to pursue but I think it was more that we wanted to get our house 
in order and then we can potentially say to the University, ‘Okay we’re doing this, 
what are you doing about those studies where we’re hosting for you?’ 

I:	Yeah, and I assume, am I correct in saying that’s sponsorship that 
governs sort of who has the ultimate responsibility for making sure all these 
things happen because I assume things can involve the Trust but be 
sponsored by the University in which case, they take ownership and vice versa 
things can involve the University but the Trust has ownership as sponsor, is 
that correct?

R:	Yes, yes so so I think with what we found it was in quite interesting actually 
because I think the models of hospital do differ about who sponsors what. So, I think 
in some areas you find the University sponsors, you know, anything clinical. I think in 
other areas, you’ll get that the, the Trust would potentially sponsor clinical studies so 
up until probably about 3 or 4 years ago, our University would not sponsor CTIMPs 
so that meant that if a clinical academic wanted a CTIMP then it was the Trust that 
would sponsor it for them. That thankfully is now changing, they’re University are 
now taking on responsibility for their clinician’s work and I think it’s what we also 
found with the [recent restructuring] was that for any activity in the Trust in one of the 
hospitals, one of the Trusts that emerged everything was sponsored by the Trust, 
nothing by the University and actually a lot of the activity was University-based.

I:	Okay.

R:	So again, that’s one of the things that we have altered over the last two or 
three years that we’ve been clear as to what should be sponsored by the Trust and 
what should be sponsored by the University so obviously we’re still dealing with lots 
of studies that you look at them go, ‘actually they’re really University-stuff.’ So, you 
know, and that’s where we work closely with our colleagues because obviously 
sometimes we might need a bit of shall we say pressure put on from a University 
side as to, you know, to meet expectation.

I:	Sure great, okay so that’s, that’s the end of my questions.  I usually just 
like to close out to say offer you the opportunity if there’s anything I sort of 
didn’t cover or anything else you’d like to touch on on these topics that you 
think would either be useful to know or that you were hoping to say and didn’t 
come out with anything I asked?

[laughter]

R:	I don’t think so, I think we’ve, we’ve covered everything, so I think I’ve covered 
everything yeah.

I:	Great excellent.






