



R2:	[R1], do you want to go first?

R1:	Will do okay, I’ve Head of Research Governance and Integrity for the 
[University]. I’ve been here for about [2 years] and previously been [at another 
University] and have been pretty much involved in transparency for well [laughs] 
since it become a public issue I think very much. So my role here is to, so I’ve got 
two teams in the University; it’s the University Research Ethics team who reviews 
studies that go to University Research Ethics Committees, so don’t go to the NHS or 
MOD, REC or any, any other REC internationally and then the other team I lead is 
the Research Governance team and they look after studies that have to have HRA 
approval including CTIMPs so I’m the, the official sponsor representative for the 
University so I guess that that seems to feature on all the studies as the, as 
representative for the University have obviously the sponsor office where we do the 
sponsor checks so the normal involvement we have is obviously awareness raising 
so we, we make sure that our researchers are aware in relation to trial registration 
and that’s been around for a long time. Obviously over the last few years more so in 
relation to trial reporting to make sure that we’ve got mechanisms in place for trial 
reporting.  

Within the, within the University, we have a quality manual and within the quality 
manual there are standard operating procedures and as this has become more and 
more of an issue, we’ve fed more and more things into the standard operating 
procedures and at the time when they get reviewed, we’ll just make sure it’s up to 
date from that point of view.  From the standard operating procedures downwards, 
we then have work instructions, and then they’ll work instructions for, for my team to 
make sure that study closure we make researchers aware and if necessary, support 
them with any reporting needs.  The, we work very closely with the clinical trial units, 
so there’s [multiple] and obviously [R2] is here for one of them and I hand over to 
[R2] so all of that work is supported by the clinical trial units for those studies that are 
supported by the clinical trial unit. So my team has really not that much to do 
because it’s mostly managed at the, at the clinical trial unit level and I suppose the, 
the function I have is maybe just helping it’s mostly helping researchers to 
understand what it is they need to do and if they’re struggling with the systems to 
provide the right support or indeed often other members of the clinical trial unit have 
actually supported non-clinical trial unit researchers with, with reporting, with 
reporting needs, so, yeah, I stop there I think for a minute.



R2:	And so, my role at the University, I’m Director of [a Clinical Trials Unit].  I’m, 
I’m a clinician by training and I took over as Director of this unit [over a decade ago]. 
[laughs] Did say I wouldn’t do it for more then 10 but there you go, so the Trials Unit 
has been in this establishment for [many] years and started off actually within the 
Trust and then moved over to the University as an academic Trials Unit and we now 
have a portfolio of around about a 100 active trials at any one time.  Predominately in 
[disease area], but we’ve also got a part of the Trials Unit that deals with early drug 
development for [other areas], for a range of different diseases and some devices.  
So quite a big portfolio and we’re also the [a named national Centre], so we’ve got a 
big international portfolio as well because 90 odd per cent of [trials in this area] are 
international.  

So as, as the Director I, I so just to say that the Trials Unit runs trials that are 
predominantly sponsored by the [University] but we also deliver what we call national 
coordination activities for international sponsors so if our Euro, our academic 
partners in other countries we collaborate with them on developing a trial, they’re the 
sponsor say in Germany or France and we deliver it in the UK as a national 
coordinating centre, so it’s kind of two regulatory roles really.  
In terms of obviously transparency, we’re completely committed to getting all our 
results out and published as soon as we can and so complying with the regulations 
so since the, you know, the, the introduction of the timelines for the EudraCT 
uploading when trials are completed we’ve been trying to maintain those timelines 
and working with [R1] it’s been, it’s been really helpful, you know, sort of getting 
those targets sent to us so that we know in advance where there’s been some 
delays or might potentially be some delays.  I think that the main challenge we’ve 
had is that we’ve got a number of trials which I would call legacy trials that we 
inherited when we took over the [specific area] portfolio. We imported a lot of 
standing trials from another University who [did not continue this research], to put too 
fine a point on it, and some of those trials we just closed down because they weren’t 
really ready to continue but some we needed to continue for patient benefit and the 
way they were set up was almost pre the current regulations and the, the delegation 
of responsibility who was doing what was not particularly clear which means there’s 
a number of trials and it keeps coming up on the, on the spreadsheets where we 
actually aren’t responsible for the data, we’re just a national co-ordinating centre but 
we are still listed as the responsible person so failing to respond, to upload but we 
don’t have the data to upload so it’s a really difficult one but for the ones that we’ve 
developed since we took over then, you know, we stay compliant with the rules and-,



R2:	Predominantly, yes predominantly.



R1:	There is. So, the University made a decision before I got here so round about 
[the mid 2010s] that they wouldn’t run a CTIMP without support of a Clinical Trials 
Unit and so from then onwards the, the studies really need, CTIMPs, needed to be 
supported by a Clinical Trials Unit.  There are, of course many other studies that are 
not.  And of course, we’ve got [more than one CTU] and they do a lot of research in 
[specific areas].  



R1:	Do you want me to go or-?

I:	Yeah, I was just, yeah why don’t you go ahead first [R1] and then we’ll 
go to [R2].

R1:	Okay, I suppose you have to look at my role, so my role is very much sort of 
compliance role really.  It’s a, it’s making sure that we fulfil our obligation under 
legislation and guidance to ensure that that you know, we can continue to do 
research and that the public has confidence in our research. So, so that probably 
takes me to why I am very keen to make sure that, so trial registration was, I had no 
problem with trial registration that was relatively easy to understand for researchers 
that they should register the trial early so you would avoid any, maybe duplication, 
you could encourage collaboration. It wouldn’t be a waste of resource where lots of 
people doing the same thing so from my point of view, from a trial registration point 
of view that made a hell of a lot of sense. I think what researchers didn’t realise, and 
maybe as a sponsor role I didn’t when I was [at this University], and [my previous 
University], was that clearly that needed to be maintained so it wasn’t done with just 
the registration and people should keep this up to date and because they’re so many 
other things researchers have to do. I think researchers just didn’t, so they kept it up 
to date with the ethics committee, they kept it up to date with the regulatory 
authorities and they kept their participants up to date because obviously it’s a 
continued informed consent process and whatever was agreed to share with them at 
the end would be shared.  I think it was just yet another think to tick a box on the trial 
reporting.  So when, when this became an issue, so obviously initially for there was a 
big lobby for pharmaceutical industries to be more transparent that even made a lot 
of sense because clearly there was a lot of data that wasn’t visible to researchers, 
especially non-commercial researchers and that that was, I saw that as quite 
positive. Clearly, those people had a hell of a lot of more resource than non-
commercial sponsors have and then when it moved on to non-commercial sponsors 
I, I think I could see why there was a drive to upload the results. I do not agree that 
that will help our, the general public to understand what’s being done in research.  
So, I think I have a, I have to a certain extent, maybe researchers look at this 
register, these registries. I’m not close enough to that anymore so my research 
career finished long time ago.

I:	Okay.

R:	But I’m not aware that somebody would, ‘Oh I must look at this trial registry to 
see what results people have actually come,’ because they would get that so my 
feeling is from my experience, they would get that from professional conferences, so 
they would go and engage in their professional forum.  Mine was in [medical 
specialty] so you would, you would engage with [the medical specialty] society, you 
would become aware of the latest research, the latest trials that were ongoing.  You 
would kick off to date with the journals of what’s been published and so as a science, 
as a scientific researcher I think that would probably be the first port of call you 
would, you would go to, so I don’t know if I really went to these results.  It became for 
me in my role became a very much compliance thing of, ‘Can we make sure getting 
this out there?’ and obviously parallel I think we needed to enhance the way in which 
we fed this back into the public but because of all the publicity around that there was, 
it actually became a public trust issue, if the University was branded as not 
publishing results those who, to those who where that was important, even if they 
didn’t understand the results it would put in question of why we’re not doing it and 
therefore clearly we needed to make sure we did put this up there to keep the, you 
know, in tune with what was out there in the public domain.  I honestly don’t believe 
that enhanced what the public new about research or, you know, very limited.  I 
mean I think the, the recent movement form the health service authority in their new 
strategy, it’s much more promising where we actually have a lot of PPI involvement 
to say, you know, how can we make this accessible to the public and for our 
participants or anyone who wants to know about that research to really understand it, 
not in these sort of weird shapes, the registries show it but actually in, what does it 
actually mean to me as a carer or to me as a patient you know and really the bottom 
line of the benefit of that research and what we need to build on.  

So I have, I have also some reservations in the way it was done so I’m not a heavy 
handed compliance person so for me I lobbied heavy against fine and heavy against 
heavy handed. I think it’s completely the wrong approach.  We have a very stressed 
research community out there anyway who have to deliver so many things in a tight 
timeframe that the last thing I wanted would put pressure into that community so I 
have only ever taken a very supportive route through this, and I would fight madly 
against any regulation, heavy-handed regulation.  I think it would achieve the 
opposite and by doing that we are now, [R2] at [a very high reporting percent]. 
[laughter]



R2:  Sure, I don’t think my views verge that much from [R1] to be honest.  I 
completely agree that that the introduction of the registration of trials from the start of 
the trial was a really important initiative and it did, has helped in terms of 
searchability of trials, you know, it’s, I think we all use ClincialTrials.gov and ISRCTN 
to look for trials.
I’m doing a research project at the moment that’s a, that’s doing a, a retrospective 
look at transcontinental trials and that’s our data source so it’s a really useful 
resource and I think it probably has helped avoid duplication of effort and that’s, 
that’s been really good. I think that it’s really important that the results of trials are out 
in the public domain at the earliest possible opportunity and that’s both in the 
scientific literature but also lay publications, you know, make sure that we get lay 
summaries out there. We find ways of feeding it back to the community, not just the 
participants of the trial but the, the population that might, might benefit from the 
outcomes of the trial so I feel very passionately about that and, as [R1] said, you 
know, the move to having greater PPI involvement throughout the trial, you know, we 
have patient representatives on our trial steering groups, on our trial management 
groups, not just reviewing patient information sheets but, you know, we’re really 
trying to move to that holistic approach. That’s said and the other part I think is data 
sharing, I think making it very visible, the accessibility to data sharing. You know, we 
have a data sharing policy that’s open on our website and it’s, it’s actually mandated 
by our funders as well, it’s in the Ts and Cs of our funders and, you know, we’re, you 
know, we’re at the moment processing multiple applications for data sharing so that 
we can do, we can get the most out of the data that we collected on clinical trials, so 
from that point of view, you know, I’m on board with the whole transparency agenda.  
What I am not on board with is the way it’s being done at all.  I think, you know, I was 
at the time of the clinical trial regulation being discussed, I was very heavily, am still 
very heavily involved in policy work with the European Commission and were 
pushing for the proportionality of the clinical trial regulation to allow us to do 
academic trials in a much easier way and then Ben Goldacre published his paper 
and it, it basically highjacked the entire agenda and suddenly the Clinical Trial 
regulation was about transparency and not about proportionate regulation and that 
actually was quite frankly damaging because, you know, the MEPs started to think 
about transparency which was important but started to lose the point that the whole 
idea of the clinical trial regulation was to reduce the level, make the regulation more 
proportionate particularly for non-commercial studies that weren’t doing first-in-man 
studies and so in the end , you know, the rest is history, we ended up with these, 
with these mandates for upload all the, this data onto the EudraCT and the two 
things that went wrong with that was that it didn’t achieve the, the purpose it was 
intended to do and that was to put data in the public domain.  First of all, it wasn’t 
accessible and secondly, as [R1] says, it’s not what, it’s not useful to the public.  It 
might be useful to other people who want to do research and I, I genuinely don’t 
know how much it’s been used for that, but the actual system wasn’t fit for purpose.  
It’s really, really difficult to do it so it, it had a huge amount of bureaucracy and 
resource and there are so many elements of it that actually make it almost 
impossible to do you know, the head of our clinical trials oversight committee I think 
was just about having a heart attack trying to put his own, own work onto it and he’s 
somebody where compliance is everything and he was really frustrated by it. 

So what we’ve ended up with is exactly as [R1] said, we’ve got something that we 
have to comply with that isn’t actually doing what was originally intended, so what 
we’re doing is satisfying some people that have put an agenda forward for 
transparency and are publicly shaming Universities for not meeting something which 
is a tick box exercise rather than the actual agenda which is making data available 
and, and I think that’s, that’s been a really counterproductive approach and I think we 
should, need to go back to the purpose of it all which was transparency in clinical 
trials, making data available to the people who could understand the data and 
making the data available to the public in a way they can understand it.      



R2:	There’s got to be really, there’s got to be very careful language here and I 
think this is what has caused a lot of the, the difficulties.  There’s a difference 
between getting a trial published and making the data available and I think there’s a 
real blurring of the margin here, so, you know, we’ve got lots of trials published which 
the historical ones that didn’t go onto the database but we were told we hadn’t 
published the data because it wasn’t on the EudraCT registry so so I think it’s, we 
need to make sure that it’s clear what we’re talking about. Are we talking about 
getting a trial published or are we talking about making the data accessible?


R2:	So on publication, I think we need to drill down why. So there are some trials 
it’s almost impossible to get published, you know, they’re, they’re negative.  I don’t 
like the idea of there being negative because every result is a result but the it’s the 
fact that they haven’t got a result that’s exciting enough for a journal to publish and I 
think there does need to be an easier mechanism that when you’ve got those trials 
that are quite frankly have not got an exciting result and the journals either have to 
be obliged to publish them or there is a mechanism by which they can be published 
so the papers written and it’s put in the public domain and open access so that’s my 
first thing so that’s on the publication side and I think that does need to be an 
obligation because it’s so easy to say, “Well I just couldn’t get it published.” Well, you 
try maybe put a time period on the time you try to get it published. It’s been rejected 
by three journals, nobody wants it. there’s a place you can post, done.  
In terms of the, the making data available, I think the funders have done a great thing 
in non-commercial trials in their in their data sharing policies, you know, they won’t 
fund you unless you sign up to data sharing but I think data is best shared by the 
people who understand the data so we have collaborative arrangements about, you 
know, that we can, we get people coming back saying, ‘Oh, you know, we didn’t 
understand this about your data, can we go over it again’ and it’s more a partnership 
but I do understand that with Industry that’s a bit more difficult and you want Industry 
to dump the data there for people to look at and that’s because of the suspicion that 
people don’t entirely trust the way the data’s been interpreted and I you know, I have 
some sympathy with that for some Industry, not all Industry and I think in those 
circumstances, there does need to be, I’ve got no problem with there being data 
repositories. GSK funded one at one point didn’t it? People, lots of you could put 
their data in there but it needs to be fit for purpose and that was the problem with 
EudraCT database, it wasn’t fit for purpose. 
It wasn’t really collecting the data in a way then would be usable to find out what 
people wanted to know which was that analysis correct, was it complete, was it 
biased? That’s what people want to look at so a fit for purpose way of doing it would 
be better.  I don’t, I don’t know what you want to say [R1]?

R1:	I think I agree with [r2], I think it’s like I said so for me the biggest initiative is 
the recent Health Research Authority Make it Public initiative because that that is 
addressing how we get it into, into the public in the right way, the way the public 
might want to have it. And I think generally, I think we’ve seen a lot of really 
interesting moves towards the open research agenda so the, so what I think is that 
that more recently we’ve got the Dora principles so the San Francisco Declaration of 
Research Assessment where we, where we want to, you know, as a, as a University 
we want to really assess the, you know, the quality of our research and the impact of 
our research and make sure that that is all done in a very holistic way so it’s not just 
about figures or about publishing in this journal but actually it’s, it’s about much more 
than this.  So you know, it’s not about an article in Nature which nobody can 
understand but actually about it’s a, or certainly I don’t, [laughs] there might be clever 
scientists that do but I certainly struggle with those or but what I am interested in is, 
you know, what do we do generally as a University to, to have genuine impact with 
our research and that that is brought out and that is how we evaluate, you know, the, 
the success of our researchers so it’s, it’s not so focused on on all of those things but 
actually takes into account all these other, other things as well and I think we’re 
heading in the right direction and then obviously we have, we have seen things come 
up now with the reproducibility network and open access to research which actually 
almost are is research a self-regulating themselves, it’s a scientific community, self-
regulating themselves and making themselves open to a scientific debate where this 
belongs.  This is a scientific debate about in my study I found this, or I didn’t find this 
or I tried this and this didn’t work and there needs to be an open exchange about that 
and I think that’s the forum in which we will move on research.  I mean this, like [R2] 
said earlier, I mean I have honestly first-hand seen how it, just me, me encouraging 
and cajoling researchers to put results up has stopped them doing their research.  It 
stopped them actually doing research they should be doing rather than fiddling round 
with the system that wasn’t fit for purpose and that’s really sad and that and I don’t, I 
don’t really want that.  I want them much more in the space where, you know, you do 
a study, you do a trial and you, you then look at what was the outcome and where’s 
the next step, where’s the next gap, how can I collaborate with other people?  How 
can we pool results and, like [R2] said, share the data in the right places?  All of that 
matters and all of that will move us on as a society but I’m yeah not convinced that 
being compliant with having it on the whatever registry is gonna do anything in that 
direction. 
I think the future is somewhere definitely with something searchable so not so many 
registries but maybe a interlinked registry so we have, you know, a reliable registry 
which then feeds into all the others so I’ve said this before, at the moment, our 
researchers register on three registries, sometimes more and we have, we have put 
measures in place for that not to happen now but you know, there is just no easy 
mechanism. So if I do ISRCTN and ISRCTN would then automatically then feed into 
Clinial.gov or the others or vice versa any of them really interlinking and being a true, 
a global registry for research, that, that would be fine I think that everybody could, 
could see that and if you then link that to proper impact, society impact where people 
are interested could look at that, that would be really good.  



R1:	Take a CTIMP and you have a CTIMP funded by the Americans, you have an 
obligation to register on Clin.gov. You can’t get round it. You have an obligation to do 
EudraCT, you can’t get round it because you have to do it here and for the regulation 
and then, and then you will automatically be on ISRCTN because you apply for HRA 
approval and portfolio adoption and you’re on it and so therefore you’ve got three 
registries which you then have to maintain as a researcher so we’ve put a paper in 
place of saying, ‘Please think about where you register.’ It’s, you know, there is, 
there’s often not a way of avoiding it.  


R1:	the majority of our trials have a European or global element so.



R2:	For a CTIMP, as [R1] said it would be done through a Clinical Trials Unit and 
the clinical trials unit has, runs to a quality management system with multiple SOPs 
that comply with the University SOPs and basically, if I put it bluntly the Chief 
Investigator of a trial is guided through all the steps by a well-trained Trial 
Management team that pretty much does it all for them so, you know, the, the regist-, 
the writing of the protocol, the registration of the trial, all the regulatory submissions, 
everything is done with the Chief Investigator but it’s done by an experienced team 
and that will go right the way through to the final, it will be the trial management team 
that do the uploading of the data onto the, onto the final registry and the where we, 
we, you know, have to work very closely with the Chief Investigators is because they 
have to sign off the reports, you know, they, we’re not doing it without them up and 
that has its own interesting challenges when they don’t always, aren’t as timely at 
that kind of thing as we’d like them to be because they’ve got busy clinical 
commitments but overall I would say they kind of get their hand held through, right 
the way through. Is that fair [R1]?

I:	Great.

R1:	Yeah, absolutely so, so and like I said, at the beginning, I’m lucky because 
obviously the, the Clinical Trials Unit colleagues will, will work this all up. When 
they’re ready they send it for sponsor review so my team will do the sponsor review 
to make sure that everything is in place so there is an appropriate registration if 
that’s required and we record this on our database and then we’ll track it through 
from our database. 
So obviously when it’s a CTU trial, we kind of rest easy because we know it’s all in 
hand, we will just keep an eye on, you know, how the, how the dates look so we’ll 
just make sure that the annual reports are done and at the end of the study that that 
people are aware, you know they’ve got now x amount of months to upload this, 
depending what sort of trial it is and if there’s any problems that, you know, we can 
iron this out. So especially the legacy trials I think you might have got involved a little 
bit more in than other stuff but yeah it, it really is quite smooth now because, 
because it’s all regulated in very well developed systems, either at the CTU level or 
University-wide with, with the quality manual that there are sort of regular checks and 
balances and if there’s a problem it always goes to the clinical trial oversight 
committee so if something isn’t working or we have difficulties, we put our heads 
together and we have had several researchers where, you know, it was a legacy 
trial, it was ages ago.  They didn’t have a clue what they were doing with the system 
and that’s what I said, that in the clinical trial oversight committee, [R2] is in there 
and she made resource available from the CTU to non-CTU people to, to just help or 
a member of my team is skilled up to upload results and we’ll do that way so, so it 
works really quite well now and people are supported so if they don’t know what 
they’re doing then we can, you know, do it for them and all they need to do is check 
that they’re happy with, with the results.



R1:	You will be aware that obviously there is an obligation for HRA approval to 
register the first four categories of IRAS so clearly that’s a condition of the approval 
so we would, we would strongly encourage that, and it needs to, needs to be 
registered within the remit of what we allow. It’s a bit of an issue at the moment 
because I’ve withdrawn the free clin.gov for everyone because I don’t want everyone 
going onto the American registry but it’s, it’s causing researchers an issue because 
unless their portfolio adopted they will have a cost to register on ISRCTN which is 
gonna be our preferred registry and we haven’t resolved that yet so if you can figure 
that one out for me that would be great.


R:	Because it’s quite a big admin burden for the team so we have a University 
account and we have to make sure that we keep up to date with the clin.gov account 
and, and so, just the pure workload of letting everybody go onto clin.gov and 
uploading and then no matter how much they promise me at the beginning, the trial 
upload initially is not an issue but then maintaining that we get regular reports form 
from clin.gov to tell us where records are not up to date and we then have to chase 
every one of those and to give you an idea that’s roughly about 98 records we get it 
and so I have to get my administrator to send 98 emails to people saying, “Your 
record is not up-to-date, can you, can you do something about it?  Have you got any 
problems? Can we help you?” And then often these are student studies, they have 
disappeared and so on, so and because clin.gov obviously there is a threat of a fine 
for certain trials anyway so I very much steer people away from clin.gov now so we 
only recently made that decision but clearly the ISRCTN, I understand why they have 
to charge because clearly they’re not a national registry like in many other countries, 
they’re not supported by the government like that and I get that but it would be quite 
helpful if we could have a UK registry that would be free for registration and then 
actually it would be much easier and if we then build in, so as part of the 
transparency consultation, the HRA looked for what do we build in as automatic 
feedback you know, on what do they want uploaded and stuff. That would be quite 
helpful to do.  It’s clearly something for the future but in the meantime I am steering 
people there but it’s not the easiest of steer because-,


R2:	No because I’m not so much involved in the CTIMPs, I’ll leave that question to 
[R1]



R1:	There is, I suppose ours is sort of oversight and monitoring functioning for the 
overall [University] performance in this area so we will run regular reports to see 
what it looks like on clin.gov, what it looks on, you know, EudraCT, what it looks on 
ISRCTN just to, just to make sure that if there is an issue we can pick it up.


R2:	And I think just to add I think what’s really good because we’ve got this clinical 
trials oversight committee which is kind of an independently chaired for research 
governance or the trials units although we’re all represented on it and it’s an agenda 
item on that meeting so, you know, we talk about it, so we know where we’re up to. 
[R1] reports what our percentage is and it highlights any issues so it kind of closes 
the loop. Is that fair to say [R1]?

R1:	Absolutely and it’s really nice because the teams, well the oversight 
committee members are just supportive of the whole process of doing it. They 
understand the hurdles, they understand that it needs to be done.  Yeah, no I think it 
works really, really well.



R1:	So, we have in the University, they have a compliance team, so the 
compliance team sits in the College, so in one specific College and so the whole 
quality manual is held within that setting but colleagues from the compliance team 
are actually on the clinical trial oversight committee.


R1:	And there’s a regular consultation so if an SOP is up for review it will go to the 
CTUs, it will go to me, it will be discussed at the clinical trial oversight committee and 
then it will be finalised.



R1:	I think the only caveat I would put on it is you have to look at the volume. [This 
University] has a massive portfolio, I mean honestly it is so research-active not just in 
the UK, internationally it’s probably one of the Universities who’s got the biggest 
international trial portfolio.  For that, for that portfolio, for someone like me, it is, so as 
a sponsor representative, it’s really reassuring to have a clinical trial oversight 
committee so any issues can be discussed there, can go there, we can find solutions 
there.  For a smaller university so I didn’t have it in [my previous position] and our 
portfolio was just much smaller for the CTIMPs and it can work also that way as long 
as there is a supportive PVC [Pro-Vice Chancellor] research so you need, you need 
someone who owns that agenda so here it’s very much carried by the oversight 
committee and obviously that has quite a lot of influence into senior management 
committees so it’s heard at senior management level. [At my prior University] we had 
a very close working relationship with [a senior director] and actually into the, the 
PVC research so had a soft reporting line to there. As long as it’s owned somewhere 
on a senior management team agenda, I think it’s fine.  With a big portfolio like [this 
University] I think, you know, I think senior management would drown with the 
amount of stuff coming through so therefore it’s good to have a, have a separate 
committee for that.  So I think, yeah not everything, what is it, this model doesn’t fit 
everything, but it works very well for [this University].

I:	For [this University] very well okay, good.

R1:	And for a University who’s got such a big portfolio, yeah.



R1:	So, from, from my point of view, I think you have to recognise that the main, 
the main task of the University is to generate knowledge to get the knowledge out 
there. That’s how we are assessed so, so we don’t have patient care within, within 
our remit, that’s not what we do so an NHS organisation might have that as their, 
their primary delivery but actually research is actually very, very close second 
delivery these days but for the University, that is, you know, education and research 
bringing it out there in, you know, into society, that is what we do, that is how we 
judged everyone who works in the University is in their regular reviews, encouraged 
to, to publish their research. It is how they’re judged; it’s how they’re paid. It’s how 
they have that escalation in their career. They cannot do that without, without getting 
it out there so I think it’s really important to see that, that is our, so pharmaceutical 
companies have a complete different driver. They want to make money, that’s it, 
therefore what doesn’t make money doesn’t get talked about.
Different in the higher education area; this is, it is our bread and butter. This is what 
researchers do and therefore they would absolutely try like, like I’ve said, they would 
try and publish wherever they can because they need to get it out there to be seen 
you know, to have this assessed in their next reporting round or review round to see 
where they can to have impact to demonstrated impact as part of the REF so we’re, 
we’re, you know, we just have had that whole exercise so, so all of that is it is what 
we do, it is what we’re here for and actually we probably as a University, we do that 
where no-one else would. So you know, a commercial company might not take 
research on because it’s not gonna make money.  An NHS might find it too risky and 
that, there is a lot of research stuff can only happen for, within the University sector 
and then getting that out there in whatever shape is the main driver for this so it’s 
really, it’s really important that we keep that in context.

R2:	I think but Nicholas I think you raise an important point about training of 
investigators and it’s something that we’ve been trying to address in the trials unit, 
you know, because it’s always very interesting how you get the most engagement 
with Investigators when you’re writing the grant application and there’s an absolute 
deadline that has to be hit to get the grant in and then everything else after that, you 
know, writing all the documents, all the tedious stuff, you know, from their point of 
view seems to be, you know, it’s much harder to keep them engaged and then even 
when it comes to the publication because of the, the other calls on their time, 
obviously, you know, clinics, patients always come first it because there isn’t a, a 
genuine deadline like a grant deadline, it’s something that, that sometimes it does go 
down the agenda and, you know, you find yourself getting chasing them to, to review 
the, the results section or whatever because we do a lot of helping of the writing the 
paper for them and so we, we’ve looked at that in quite a lot of detail over the recent 
years and we, we’ve set much more of a almost a concordat with our investigators 
from day one. So, you know, the moment we take on the trial, they have to sit and 
have a two hour interview with us but it’s, it’s very much about this is, this what we 
can do for you but this is what we expect from you back and that’s everything from, 
not just writing the grant application but how you respond to all the queries and 
makes it much more of a close team working so it isn’t investigator out there in the 
hospital and we’re doing the, the bureaucratic stuff, that it’s actually really clear what 
those expectations are and I think we have seen a shift by working much more 
closely with the investigators in that way. We, we’re helping to get them over the, 
over the bar and, you know, just to give an example, we had an idea that we, we’d 
lock them in a room for two days to write a grant, a trial protocol and we didn’t quite 
get that far but we, we definitely had full day meetings and it’s been great with Zoom, 
where literally going page by page writing the protocol and I think we’re gonna get to 
the stage of doing that with papers as well. You know, when we get, all, everything’s 
been analysed and we just need to get that paper over the line, we’ll have a whole 
day where we write it together online or in a room



R2:	So we’ve got a full in house training programme that’s, that’s a kind of rolling 
programme starting from induction and then there’s training on different aspects of 
our, our, SOPs and it all revolves around the SOPs and so that’s delivered in house 
and people come, it doesn’t matter what time of the year you start, you kind of join it 
and then you join the different bits that are ongoing. But we’re also running a 
Master’s course in Clinical Trials so it is entirely directed at people who want a 
career in clinical trials so it’s not a statistics course, it’s not that investigators can't go 
on it but its more really get on it people who want to become Trial Managers and it’s 
[relatively new] you know, we’re hoping to expand it and, you know, it’s, we’ve got 
international people signed up for it as well. So and I think in developing that course, 
we’ve got dedicated post for training and education within the, the unit who’s one of 
the co-leads for the course and the training material within that course is also used 
for the people in-house and, in fact, we allow people to join parts of the Master’s 
course just to, you know, they’re not actually signed up for the Master’s but go along 
to lectures and get engaged in it in order to get the parallel training and some of 
them actually sign up to it as part time as well so do a part time Masters while they’re 
employed in the unit. So, it’s, it’s definitely evolving, it’s something that we need to 
do more of but, you know, there’s increasing opportunities to do it.

I
R1:	It’s the whole journey so I teach on it for it so it’s the, you, you literally cover 
the whole journey from, you know, the idea right through to study closure and lots of 
different people come in so there, they will get different perspectives of researchers 
of sponsors of, you know, other people who, who play a role and every aspect of that 
is looked at. So certainly, in my sponsor talks I will mention a, you know, there’d be 
issues around trial registration, but others will pick it up in a different way so it’s, it’s 
almost like a spiral learning where you go over territory all the time in the different 
modules or from different perspectives and stuff.  


R2:	So I’m, I’m the Trials Unit’s one of the UKCRC registered trials units and so 
I’m part, so we meet regularly as part of the UKCRC Trials Unit Directors groups so 
we’re a forum, we get both by emails and we meet currently by Zoom but usually 
down in London and then part of the UKCRC there are other groups so although I’m 
on the Director’s group, there’s the Operation Manager’s group, there’s the IT group, 
you know, a QA group, so lots of them meet and then we’re also because we’re, our 
Trials Unit is core funded by [funding organisation] and they core funded [a number 
of] units in total, we meet as a group as a well and it’s a sort of parallel but we’re the 
CTU Directors and Operations Directors meet and then there are other groups on 
specific issues but and that’s tries not to overlap with the UKCRC work, it’s when it’s 
very [disease area]-related so we try to do things that are very [disease area]-related 
and then at an International level because we do so many European [er] and global 
trials in [disease area] we link to a number of European Clinical Study groups and I 
[work in the leadership of a] sponsor’s committee and this is a network of academic 
institutions around Europe that are non-commercial sponsors for trials and we try to 
work together to try and standardise the way we sponsor trials across different 
countries and certainly our University and our contracts department have been very 
helpful in trying to, for example, work out template contracts as to how we work 
going forward so that’s where we kind of get that overlap but that’s kind of very much 
from a CTU perspective. [R1] you’re involved in other things as well, aren’t you?

R1:	Yes, so I think my main forum where I engage obviously is the Russell Group 
Universities, so we have a, we have a, a sort of sponsor, a non-commercial sponsor 
group there within the, with all the Russell group partners who work together on 
sharing good practice and that’s been incredibly valuable to have sort of case 
studies out there. Very early on in my [prior University] career because of the 
challenges brought by TranspariMED that actually was initially could have been a 
very bad relationship turned into something really positive where, where actually I 
said to Till, “Look, I’m gonna write a case study because I need you to change tack.  
This is, this is not working, you need to help Universities, you cannot just name and 
shame Universities.” And that’s actually been a really good collaboration in as much 
that I [contributed to a] case study that went out and then colleagues followed, they 
wrote their case studies. It was a best practice sharing exercise. How do you 
overcome these legacy issues where there was no solution and we took that actually 
into very different fora.  So I work very closely, I’m a UK research integrity office 
advisor so I did those annual conferences and presented stuff there in wherever I 
was invited for the NHS R&D forum, I did it for NHS R&D Managers,  I did it within 
Europe because the, by then obviously the in Germany the, the Universities were in 
a similar stage but a little bit behind us so we took a big workshop over there so we 
did some presentations over there and met with the EudraCT people so EMA people 
to, to see what could be done to improve things so the having actually the lobbyist 
working with us rather than against us and making this the best practice sharing 
forum I think that was actually really essential for many people to help and I today I 
still, I get contacted by many other colleagues across the UK to say, ‘Oh, you know, 
you talk there, can you help me do this? or ‘How did you do that? And that’s, that’s 
been quite helpful to have a really effective best practice sharing forum.



