

I:	So, we’ll just go ahead and get started then.  So yeah to reiterate we’ll be 
talking about transparency, trials transparency and we’ll focus on registration 
and reporting of clinical trials but if there’s any other area of trials 
transparency you would like to touch on, you can feel free to include those in 
your responses and just ultimately the aim of those research is to identify sort 
of barriers and best practices to research [um] that can be shared with the 
larger community of UK, you know, public research institutions to inform the 
discussion and plans for improvement. So  we’ll start right off, can you go 
ahead and tell me about your role?

R:	Right so yeah, I’m a part time Trial Manager, so I’ve just finished a project 
with [disease area] and I’m moving on, starting a new job with [a different disease 
area]. It’s still in the same team but yeah, it’s just a different project.

I:	Great and so sort of how long have you been involved in you know, the 
world of trial management and clinical trials?

R:	Right, so being a Trial Manager, so I started in [the mid 2010s] and I finished 
that project in 2020 and then starting the [new project] as a Trial Manager again from 
[early this year] for a year contract.  I don’t know if you’re aware, but Trial Managers 
or Trial personnel is only on a fixed term contract. We can never have a permanent 
contract

I:	Okay.

R:	 so it’s kind of like an ongoing, kind of like on a I think the maximum we can 
get is two years as such but and then it’s kind of like ongoing until funding finishes 
and then you apply for a different job type thing so.  But with clinical trials process 
type thing I’ve been I was, I am an R&D Officer for the NHS, so I started that back in 
[early 2000s], so technically in a way I’m kind of like, you know, been doing this like 
for 20 years.

I:	Okay great so can you tell me either through your role as a Trial 
Manager or through your R&D Officer roles how you’ve been involved with the 
registration and reporting of trials?

R:	Right the registration, what do you mean?  Can you define what you mean by 
registration, registration to where?

I:	To a trial registry such as the EUCT, EudraCT, EUCTR or 
clincialtrials.gov or the ISRCTN, any of those like, you know, there’s various 
other ones too but that’s yeah.

R:	Yes so with my Trial Manger with [disease area] I’ve used the clinicaltrials.gov 
and with that yeah that proved difficult completing but at the same time because, you 
know, I find because of the terminology used, the different aspect of explaining 
things, completing the forms online and although, you know, there’s guidance and 
you know, definition for each terminology yeah I kind of like found it quite difficult at 
the beginning, at the start until you kind of get familiar and thereafter then you have 
to basically do, review every year for clinicaltrials.gov to make sure it’s obviously live 
real information.  
Whereas, now with the [new disease area], I’ve just registered this study with 
ISRCTN

I:	Right.

R:	 and yeah so with that I find it more straight forward in a sense because I think 
the terminology and probably because I’ve done it before with clincialtrials.gov then 
there’s similarity to that and kind of the expectation you kind of like, you know, 
recognise and understand so for both I’ve done and I’ve not done any, kind of like, 
I’ve done kind of like [disease charity], you know, NIHR registration but I don’t know 
if that’s the kind of thing that you’re looking for?

I:	Yeah, no, the, the what you described is perfect. So just to build off so 
this is in your role as a Trial Manager, it was your responsibility to like fill out 
and maintain those registrations on clincialtrials.gov or the ISRCTN?

R:	Yes.

I:	Okay great and is that stan-, do you know if that’s standard at your 
institution for the Trial Manager to be sort of in charge of that?

R:	No idea [laughs]

I:	No idea, okay, but for you it is. [laughs]

R:	[laughs] Yes, I assume the majority will because I can’t see the CI doing that 
or the sponsor although In the [University] it is not mandatory but it’s strongly 
recommended plus obviously the fact that if you want to publish, you know, the ISR 
[em] the, you know, in the top ten journals then you need to have a public 
registration.

I:	Yeah, and this, may be less, slightly less relevant now because we’re 
living in a post-Brexit work but did you have any interaction with the EudraCT 
the EudraCT and EUCTR system for getting the trial, like filing through the, like 
getting the ethics and the approvals to the MHRA which then goes through to 
the EudraCT system?  

R:	Yes so we did two trials that I’ve ben involved with, they’re both non-
commercial so non-CTIMPs studies.

I:	Okay great.

R:	So, I’ve not been involved in the MRHA, but I’ve been involved in the sponsor 
and ethics approval registration submission and, you know, attended all the 
meetings and stuff like that but yes.

I:	Yeah, okay and then they were, but so the studies you’ve been involved 
in are non, non-CTIMPs?

R:	Yes, non-CTIMPs. 

I:	Okay great but just to be clear some, so you’re [University] does do 
some, does also do CTIMP research right?

R:	Oh yes, yes, oh yes.

I:	And you mentioned as an NHS R&D Manager do you, have you like 
interacted with these maybe not as directly but like from a policy perspective 
would any of these registration areas and things like, like dealing with 
registration and things like that?

R:	Not from the R&D perspective because we are kind of like the end process of 
approval.

I:	Gotcha, okay.

R:	Although we, you know, as R&D officers then we need to check whether all 
the approvals are in place before we can issue R&D approval. 

I:	Right okay gotcha and then so I just wanted to make sure I understand 
so for that role are you like where are you affiliated to as in R&D, like I know 
it’s the NHS but where specifically like within the NHS?

R:	Research and Development Office so we’re kind of like the final hurdle in 
clinical, you know, approval process, so we check like the project, the applications 
got sponsor approval, ethics approval if required because not all trials or studies 
require ethics approval.  They might just need University approval or so if it’s a start 
they won’t need any of that but and then we need to have kind of like have the all the 
other, for example Caldicott approval or public benefit approval, you know, just all 
these different things that are required, you know, to make sure the, the regulatory 
process is in place for before the study starts.

I:	Great yes and so that’s working for the N, the general NHS not for like a 
specific institution?

R:	That is for the whole, so the NHS, well as you know there’s different Trusts in 
each region so yeah, so for us, for me, it’s [local NHS institution].

I:	Gotcha.

R:	So, all the hospitals within that region within that zone.

I:	Okay great so one thing I’m interested in is hearing people sort of 
describe in their own words why they think requirements for the registration 
and eventual reporting of clinical trials are in place so I was, that’s my next 
question can you explain why you think, just from your own understanding of 
the topic, why we register trials and why we make sure that they are reported.  

R:	Yeah, for me it’s transparency and for information for of the public especially 
of the researchers in general and the participants.

I:	Okay and then and then so like how like so what about what, why is that 
transparency important?  

R:	To make sure that the regulation is followed correctly and if there’s any query 
then you can go back to it and ensure that it can be looked at.

I:	Gotcha, okay great and then so okay, so switching back to your role as 
a Trial Manager, so can you talk me through, you did a little bit of this already 
but to get into a bit more detail.  So can you talk me through the process of 
how sort of, you know, you, you’re starting the trial and you need to register it, 
what does that process look like, you know, what is, what is the, the step-by-
step sort of what that would look like on a, on a somewhat broad level. You 
know, I don’t need to know exact details but broadly what does that process 
look like for you?

R:	Yes so, I’ll just go back to the recent one that I’ve done with ISRCTN.

I:	Okay.

R:	That process so what’s, how I started that is well get permission for, from the 
CI to for the payment because ISRCTN’s got payment to it whereas clincialtrials.gov 
is free.  So got confirmation of payment for that that he’s happy for me to register on 
the ISRCTN, the reason I’ve chosen this time the ISRCTN is because it’s more 
UK/European rather than American and also in a way because we don’t need to 
review it on a yearly basis although obviously you have to make sure, you know, it’s 
part of our responsibility to make sure it is up to date. And then after that I got in 
touch with ISRCTN, went online, did all the payment from me and did as much as I 
can and then liaised with the CI where information that needs to be done and in, you 
know, I completed the form and got his verification with all that and then we 
submitted to ISRCTN as requested and then ISRCTN actually got back to us quite 
quickly and very helpful in the matter as well with some of the queries that they have 
and I have to admit this time round with Covid, it took us a while to kind of like gather 
all the information. So, again, directly liaising with whoever was in ISRCTN this, you 
know, same person that I was dealing with, you know, from the beginning all the way 
to approval, it’s the same person so again that kind of like help the process and yes 
so got back eventually.  Took us a wee bit longer than expected but we got there. 
Got our approval and here we are. We just need to start the study.

I:	Excellent, yeah so a few a few follow up questions on that. So you so it 
sounds like you haven’t started this study yet so where in the process did of 
like getting this trial off the ground did registration come in, you know, was it 
before ethics, after ethics, like how much of the trial had already sort of gone 
through other steps.  Was, you know, was registration early or later in the 
process of getting all this set up?

R:	Yeah, so right from the beginning when I was kind of asked to join this study, I 
mentioned straight away that we need public registration to make sure if we want to 
publish, you know, that we get, you know, we get accepted for this. So, you know, I 
explained that to the CI and then so right from the beginning I mentioned that in 
terms of the actual submission or, you know, completion of the form, I did that 
actually after ethics it’s because again of the Covid situation.

I:	Okay.

R:	Getting information from different, you know, source and different people and 
kind of like getting all the information together but yes so, I did that after ethics and 
and I think yeah I did it after receiving favourable opinion from ethics.

I:	Great so there was like, you may have got during normal times, non-
Covid times, it may have gone a better quicker, like-,?

R:	Yes.

I:	Yeah, okay and

R:	 I was hoping to submit and get approval from IRSCTN at the same time, you 
know, after my sponsor approval.

I:	Mhm.

R:	So I can kind of like, you know, I was hoping to do parallel submission, 
IRSCTN and ethics so I was hoping like, you know, that at the end that I can both 
and then update the protocol with the number but yeah it just didn’t work out like that.

I:	Yeah, no okay that’s fine and then what sort of support or like so it 
sounds like, you personally had some familiarisation, some familiarity with 
registration from past experience but like what support or how is [your 
University] involved in this process, you know, how did they, like are they 
checking or are they providing you with resources or they doing anything to 
make sure that you’re registering and registering correctly.

R:	You mean like the sponsor, [the University] sponsor?

I:	Yeah, so yeah like-,

R:	Yeah.

I:	Yeah, is it like, I assume that there’s a research office there or 
something that might you know, like a sponsorship office who might well I 
don’t know that’s what I’m asking, you know, are they offering any support on 
this, yeah?

R:	Yeah, so for us, so part of the sponsor approval is recommendation to register 
in the public registration.  It’s strongly recommended because of the, you know, the 
condition or publication but that is, that responsibility is basically delegated to the CI, 
i.e. the registration.

I:	Yeah.

R:	The CI has delegated it to the Trial Manager.  [laughs]

I:	Right, yeah.

R:	So then in terms of support all we need to do is basically inform, you know, 
once we’ve gone through the process, all we need to do is inform the sponsor that 
we’ve got our approval and then they just yeah, set up their own system,

I:	And then once the study gets going and maybe you know about this 
more from your past the last study you worked on you know, you mentioned 
that ongoing like update requirement for clinicaltrials.gov is there anyone 
reminding you about that, you know, once, once you have, like you’ve taken 
the recommendation.  You have registered, is there any ongoing support, you 
know, reminding you to do, to check your updates or reminding you to interact 
with the registry in any way?

R:	Yes, so in terms of the clinicaltrials.gov because you need a yearly update 
check, you know, for that system then the sponsor has somebody receiving 
information or checking on a yearly basis if this is, you know, safe still up to date so 
they get in touch with me

I:	Okay.

R:	and ask them to check the system and then the CI will have to verify it and 
then, and then after the CI’s verification then the sponsor I think needs to seal it, 
approve it or something, you know, whereas ISRCTN, I don’t know how it would 
work because I, as far as I know, you don’t need to check every year.  

I:	Yeah.

R:	So, I don’t know how and what support that would be, you know, for ISRCTN 
but definitely we will need the, say, the registration.

I:	Yeah okay great so now moving on maybe once again this is something 
where you have a bit more experience from you’re the past trial rather than 
this one since this one hasn’t gotten off the ground yet, quite yet but what 
what’s been your experience as a Trial Manager in being involved with the 
results reporting of the trial, have you had any experience interacting with that 
process in in any form?

R:	Yeah, so with my Trial Manager hat on for the [disease area] we’re just in the 
middle I think we’re, I’m just waiting for as I say, the final draft report, you know, 
publication any time hopefully in the next week or two. We’ve not actually properly 
published yet so in terms of putting the report together I kind of left that with the 
research team because I’m kind of like, I’m off the contract.  

I:	Right.

R:	That’s kind of like, so that’s part of the problem with Trial Managers because 
our contract kind of like really is not until say the, you know, writing in the publication 
type of things.

I:	Right.

R:	So, we don’t really get involved in that.

I:	Yes.

R:	For me anyway, you know, it’s, not in my case.

I:	Sure, sure so there was no sort of interest like at least when you as far 
as your job is concerned, no-one since you were the person who interacted 
with the registry there was no did anyone ever talk about putting the results on 
the registry because you can do that at clinicaltrials.gov.  

R:	Yeah as, so basically, I was involved in that study until database lock and 
then throughout, you know, obviously I’ve informed them that would be one way of 
putting it, you know, publishing it but the problem rests that study, we didn’t actually 
register on the public registration until a year later.  

I:	Okay.

R:	Because we thought because this is a non-CTIMP then it wasn’t a, say, a 
requirement only for CTIMPs so when we, when I registered when we were kind of 
like, you know, registering for protocol publication to [a prestigious journal] they 
informed us that we have to be, you know, the registry has to be done before 
recruitment.

I:	Right.

R:	So, going back to all the information for public registration yeah didn’t realise 
that is kind of like applicable to all [eh] trials, clinical trials.

I:	Oh, that’s such really interesting to hear.

R:	Yes.

I:	Could you expand on that a little bit please because I would love to hear 
more about sort of like what was the reaction of the larger research team to 
like learning to essentially hearing about that.  I assume that was quite a, a 
little bit of a shock maybe?

R:	A shock, very disappointed. Very especially for my part because I didn’t kind 
of like, I didn’t join the study until six months after the study started.  

I:	Right.

R:	So as soon as I start, I did ask that but there was no, it was not in the priority 
at that time. The priority was recruitment, you know, opening sites and recruitment, 
that was the priority so that was the task I was given straight away although at the 
back of my mind, I should ask, you know, this should have been registered but it’s 
not but anyway so very disappointed because of that we, I mean we’re trying again, 
we’re trying to get in touch again with [prestigious journal]and see if they would.  
Unfortunately, we’re not hearing back after that initial, you know, contact with 
[prestigious journal] and that because we’re not registered within, is it three, I can’t, 
is it three months before recruitment or something like that, there is a timeline?

I:	It’s usually, so as far as the publishing in journals, I mean individual 
journals might have different policies. From, from my understanding it’s just, 
you know, as far as the ICMJE is concerned

R:	Yes.

I:	just any, any time before the first patient is enrolled is generally 
considered okay.

R:	Alright, I think on [prestigious journal] we were given a timeline before 
recruitment.

I:	Gotcha.

R:	Yeah, I think it was three months if not more so yeah, we are really 
disappointed, so we ended up publishing the protocol in the [another journal], yeah.

I:	Yeah.

R:	So yes, we’re in this conundrum now hence with the new study that I’ve got I 
registered before, you know, straight after as soon as I can, with that lesson learned, 
very hard lesson learned.

I:	Interesting, yeah but it sounds like you weren’t, it sounds like you 
arrived at the study after that that decision would have already had to have 
been made, right, that was the last one?

R:	Yes.

I:	Yeah.

R:	Yes, unfortunately it was still me as Trial Manager got blamed for not 
registering. [laughter] so yes.

I:	So, what did the, just to really quick touch on that one more time, the CI 
of that study you were dealing with what was their sort of like reaction to that 
to that situation where they didn’t, the trial didn’t get registered when it was 
supposed to and like, yeah?

R:	Really frustrated, really in a way angry because, you know, because the study 
that we’re doing is, you know, we were really hoping for a high impact because we 
want to contribute to this the changes in the standard of care, you know, and more 
information about this, you know, so yeah really disappointed, really but at the same 
time, you know, what can we do. It’s done, we just have to move on but again we are 
at this stage now, so I don’t know, because I’ve not been in the, obviously I’ve not 
been in touch with team I just spoke to the person kind of like co-ordinating all of that 
that report writing.  I think they had several meetings to date, and I think he’s gonna 
try, I asked him to push again for [prestigious journal] or somebody else within that 
top ten and see if they would consider again because we’re hoping because the 
report is actually quite positive. So maybe we’re hoping that, you know, they will kind 
of like look at the result and hopefully ignore the yea

I:	the late registration?

R:	yeah misunderstanding.

I:	Yeah sure and then so you haven’t so so that’s talking about journal 
publications so just when you had left the team or even if you’ve heard 
anything else since then if you’ve been in touch so like is there currently no 
plan to put the results on clincialtrials.gov in that like, you know, their, their 
tabular format or is there, or do you think someone will do that eventually?

R:	I hope somebody will do that or I can do that on their behalf because I’m the 
only one was kind of like really know how to use the system so once I start again 
because I’m working with the same more or less team then maybe, you know, I’m 
pretty sure the CI will give that job to me if, you know, because I think for me, I would 
probably push for that too especially if we can’t go into the top 10.

I:	Interesting okay and yeah, okay yeah that was very interesting so

R:	In what Nicholas, in what way, how is it interesting?

I:	Oh just interesting to hear a story like that, you know, 

R:	Yes.

I:	about where a retrospective registration, you know, came about and 
hearing what the team had to deal with for that and, you know, how it led to 
you being a lot more proactive about it in this, in the next one to, you know, 
learning from that and just an interesting anecdote.  

R:	Yeah. I mean so far from the interviews that you’ve done am I currently the 
only one that has, that has done it retrospectively.  

I:	So, you’re the only you’re actually the first Trial Manager I’ve spoken 
with so far. I’ve spoken with some people in some other positions so you, I 
have no-one to compare to.

R:	Oh, okay that yeah no for me, that’s more interesting I can like really hear 
from you after you’ve finished the, you know, the study you’ve got because yeah 
that’s something I really kind of like want to know because it’s still, this, you know, 
that kind of like recommendation has been there for, I don’t know, say the last ten 
years, is it?  Would you say ten years?

I:	I think it came, I believe the ICMJE one came out in I believe it was 
announced in 2004 and came into effect in 2005, I believe.

R:	Yeah, so yeah so that’s kind of like ten years when I started the study. And it 
was interesting that the sponsor, I’m not blaming the sponsor, you know, there’s 
nobody to blame that that wasn’t kind of like pushed at the beginning. and also 
because this study was under the clinical trials unit. Then, you know, again because 
that’s kind of like, their, in a way, say remit you know, under a sponsor’s delegation 
that it wasn’t again kind of like put as a priority because of the consequences of 
publication.

I:	Yeah, so it sounds to me though like the institution now more, they, they 
more proactively encourage you to do it like than they probably did back then, 
would that be fair to say?

R:	I would say that’s fair to say.  I don’t know that I was me…[audio cut-
out]…because I was really kind of like annoyed [laughs] you know, that I was blamed 
for something that I started six months after recruitment.

I:	Right.

R:	So yeah so, I was not happy and I kind of like yeah did voice my opinion and 
ever since yeah say the process and the procedure’s been changed slightly and now 
it is recommended.  Although they’re saying it’s not mandatory, it’s recommended 
because nobody else is saying it’s mandatory. Everyone, you know in all the different 
organisation are saying, ‘recommended’ so that’s what they’re following.  

I:	Right and then I guess up until recently if you had been working on a 
CTIMP it would have automatically been registered on the, in the EU process?

R:	Exactly.

I:	Yeah.

R:	You see ‘cos I think that was the difference because this is, although it’s a 
investigational clinical trials it’s still considered as a non-CTIMP so for all CTIMP, all 
our studies are registered under obviously the EudraCT, so that was okay because 
that’s considered as one of the public registration whereas non-CTIMP even up to 
now, I know there’s still a lot of non-CTIMP that has not been registered. 

I:	Yeah.

R:	which is again I don’t know where at the moment you are, which again I would 
be really interested to know the result and the effect of that.  Is that something that 
you would be gathering and putting together?

I:	So I’m only probably going to be talking in this study to like 10 to 15 
people so I’m not going to get a big comprehensive but a lot of my other work 
has dealt with you know, checking trial registration and then clincialtrials.gov 
specifically but mainly for ones covered by the law which your trial probably 
wouldn’t have been in the US and then also on the EU register.  So, your, sort 
of, there’s trials you’ve worked on it sounds like are hitting that like non-
CTIMP, not covered by the American law sort of sweet, potential sweet spot of 
like stuff that, you know, I that’s tough to look at. Now I know that others, 
some other researchers have done some work to look at non-CTIMP 
registration in the UK and they, I think that those results are relatively recent. 
They used HRA, you know, research ethics data and and I think it was like a 
third of non-CTIMPS were not being registered so it definitely, you know, 
definitely backs up what you’re saying some of the research out there.

R:	So, Nicholas, so the HRA registration because obviously the study is was 
registered under the HRA or the ethics committee and also with the NIHR,

I:	Yeah.

R:	you know, the National institute Research Centre so this study that I was 
talking about it was registered with them before obviously recruitment but I wasn’t 
sure if that is considered as public registration you see. That’s all we’ve so would you 
consider that as public registration? So it’s just for me, you know, if we can go back 
to [prestigious journal] for that [disease area] study, can we say it’s like actually you 
know, what we’ve registered, this is the registration date, would you-?

I:	So so those, I know so the pol-, I assume that the policy because 
[prestigious journal] is like one of the I believe their one of the ICMJE members 
so they probably go by either ICMJE policy or stricter sounds like maybe even 
and that requires registration on a, like WHO approved registry, like 
clinicaltrials.gov or the ISRCTN or these other ones so something like the 
HRA, like they don’t, they’re not like acting in the same way as those other 
registers do.  

R:	Yeah.

I:	I mean yes, so it’s difficult for me to say, you know, what you might be 
able to say to [prestigious journal] or not that might you know be able to work 
but yeah.  

R;	Yeah no sorry I mean you probably can hear my frustration, you know, in the 
matter but yeah it’s, it’s tricky because it’s not, it’s not black and white, you know, in 
a way so I think that is possibly some of the frustration from say researchers old an 
experienced one and especially for new researchers, you know, navigating this 
process it is really quite difficult because recommendation, what does 
recommendation really means, you know?

I:	Yeah.

R:	A recommendation means then you don’t actually really need to do it until you 
realise when you’re doing what you want to do i.e., publication then, you know, your 
result is not accepted so yeah it’s a hard lesson learned, you know, when it, when 
something like this happens but yeah, I don’t know again if this is something that you 
know that it would be part of your say result recommendation, you know, the different 
aspect of say the negative impact of the process and recommendation that they use 
and they do, sorry.

I:	Yeah well, we might talk-, we might cover that a bit more as we work 
though the interview her so but so just a quick follow up on what you just said 
though so was your, was the CI on the project a new, what, what were they an 
experienced or were they relatively new CI for the last project?

R:	I would say relatively experienced CI

I:	Okay.

R:	as a CI goes. Everything is kind of like say delegated to the next in line.

I:	Okay interesting okay great.

R:	Yes, very interesting. [laughs] I’m finding that as well.  

I:	So, I’m interested so when you, you know, registered that trial and 
registered this one as you’ve gone through that process now on two different 
registries did you sort of have to figure it out yourself or did you get any sort 
of training or support in in doing that?

R:	I figured that out myself.

I;	Okay and there was no, the institution offered sort of no guidance or 
what to do, they just like, 

R:	There’s some guidance offered-,

I:	they just you get a login.

R:	Yeah, no sorry there’s a guidance on the website for both for clincialtrials.gov 
and ISRCTN so, you know, what I’ve done is they’ll loaded that and kind of gone 
through the the process.  In terms of support from say the sponsor or the previous 
study, say the clinical trails unit.  So, from the sponsors point of view no, I didn’t 
really get any support although I’m aware that any questions I have, you know, I can 
ask them but at the same time I was under the impression that it’s your responsibility 
so get on with it type thing. 

I:	Yeah.

R:	You know, at the time of completing the form and getting approval because 
basically we know the study more than they do like in the details. In terms of the 
clinical trials unit yeah as it’s kind of like, I would have thought they would have put 
that as my priority, you know, to register because again doing, they are experienced 
CTU but, again, I think it’s to do with the non-CTIMPs CTIMP 

I:	Okay.

R:	and what the sponsor recommendation.  So if the sponsor’s not kind of like 
push for it then the CTU is kind of like put that on the back burner because obviously 
there’s lots of other things to do so yeah.

I:	And, and, yeah and interesting to so in that original in the past study, 
the previous study you worked on there was sort of no push back from  the 
REC, from the ethics committee about not having a registration in place as far 
as you know?

R:	No because even now what I’m seeing from the recom, you know, approval 
letter is a recommendation. It’s not a mandatory.

I:	Interesting okay.

R:	So again, so it’s sponsor recommendation, it’s an ethics recommendation so, 
you know, as a researcher what do you do?  I mean you choose, you know, what is 
mandatory and you get on with the mandatory and then leave the recommendation 
at a later date.  

I:	So what about so I, you know, you’re working like you said, your 
institution has like a relatively developed, like a pretty busy CTU and they do 
lots of trials, is there any talk amongst it or any sort of like whether formal or 
informal information sharing about this sort of thing, sort of amongst the trial 
managers or the researchers or whoever on the various trials. Is there 
anything like that going on?

R:	Yes so when this happened to me I immediately informed all my colleagues in 
the CTU that even though for non-CTIMP, you know, studies I basically says for all 
studies that we’re doing it has to be registered in a public register, i.e..  ISRCTN or 
clincialtrials.gov, you know, depending obviously on funding. But yeah so that was, 
as soon as that basically happened to me, I shared that information to all and now as 
far as I know, you know, that is part of all studies in that CTU.

I:	And what was like the response to hearing about that, you know, what 
was the like like what did your colleagues, what was the reaction to that when 
you sort of shared that out?

R:	I think it’s because they knew that I was kind of blamed for it although they 
know that I didn’t start with the study they couldn’t really say anything because we’re 
all employed by the CTU [laughs] and the managers were there, you know, and I 
can’t obviously blame my line manager for not pushing for me to register in the 
study.

I:	Yeah.

R:	So, it was just given as kind of like a positive feedback of my experiences, you 
know, on our weekly meeting basically.

I:	Yeah, interesting okay and then so I’m wondering that since now you’ve 
sort of been through this once in a very, you know, disappointing negative way 
and now it sounds like it’s been a more productive and proactive one this time. 

R:	Mm.

I:	I’m wondering though how do you feel you could be better supported or 
informed or people who are doing this, these registration and stuff at your 
institution in general, you know, what, what could be improved about that 
process?

R:	I think for me is if the publishers, you know, if this is their criteria as part of 
their, you know, acceptance for publishing results then I think they need, I think this 
is where the problem arises.  They can’t say it’s in a way it’s mandatory, you know, 
this is what I’ve been told Nicholas that’s why it’s recommended at the moment but I 
just don’t understand why, you know, like say for example, you know, the top ten 
journals saying that, you know, they won’t accept but you know, the sponsors and 
ethics and see all the approval sectors is still saying recommended if the result is 
negative to the researchers. So I think it’s more like the yeah clarification and that 
process and what is really what the researchers need to do to make sure, you know, 
it’s plain sailing for them.

I:	Yeah so, it’s, it’s confusing for you, it sounds like it’s sort of confusing 
or there’s a disjoint there for you

R;	Yeah.

I:	 that this would be such an important requirement for the journals but 
your institution doesn’t call it a requirement, they call it a like an optional step 
or a recommended step?

R:	Yes.

I:	Yes okay.

R:	Unless you’ve done that then, you know, you won’t read that recommendation 
as anything but recommendation. 

I:	Yeah, interesting and then so has there been any like are you aware that 
your institution anything and this could be either at, you know, [the University 
or NHS organization] if you’ve heard anything about like has there been any 
recent developments or recent changes or communications to staff about 
anything regarding registration or results reporting recently?

R:	Yes so when this happened to me because I was speaking to the sponsor 
about it and because it so happens to that the new governance manager is new to 
the post and like, she’s from a different [institution] moving into our [institution] as the 
Governance Manager and she so she sent out a, we have a newsletter to, you know, 
researchers in [the University and NHS organization] recommending to ensure 
before recruitment that they register their studies into public registration if 
appropriate so, you know, so because I think there’s still a lot of student studies that 
is obviously not being registered and staff studies that’s not being registered 
because it’s not appropriate or I don’t what that really means because I thought all 
studies has to be registered one way or another onto a public recognised register. 
So again, there is still that for me, disjointed as you said, you know, information for 
researchers but at the same time you don’t want to put another layer to the 
researchers you know, forms, documents to complete before they can start the 
study.  

I:	Right if you don’t have to right. 

R:	So yeah so actually that’s a newsletter and again the sponsor I think did say a 
drive an exercise, you know, where I think everything’s registered from then on and I 
think we, as [the University], I think we were named I don’t know what year it was I 
was informed this when I attended they UKTMN, I don’t know if you’ve heard of that, 
UK Trial Manager’s Network?

I:	Yeah of course, yep.

R:	conference that the University was top register, you know, of studies. It’s like 
whoho, that’s brilliant so.

I:	Yeah and I’m curious about so that’s another thing I wanted, yeah so 
they even though you haven’t been directly involved in it for your two, you 
know, examples of, you know, going through this registration process but are 
you familiar with the EU that obviously not well people can still report so it’s 
still relevant but with the process of mandatory reporting of results to the EU 
register, like are you aware of that from your colleagues doing it or has it been 
something that your institution has talked about at all?

R:	For all CTIMPs yes definitely and say high profile studies it’s the non-CTIMP 
is considered kind of like, I mean don’t get me wrong, it’s coming to that because I 
keep asking, you know, you know, for example, if my studies going to be monitored 
or audited or, you know, kind of like because I’m following say the CTIMP procedure 
rather because before just non CTIMP kind of like process as such.

I:	Yeah.

R:	So now the sponsor is, our sponsor anyway is starting to look at, you know, 
like say doing same process for CTIMPs and non-CTIMPs studies.  

I:	Mhm so it sounds like the CTIMPs were a lot more, like looked after and 
this sort of thing is a lot more, it’s, I don’t want to say taken seriously but it’s, 
like it’s a lot more sort of comprehensive around CTIMPs than it is around non-
CTIMPs?

R:	Yeah, I think it’s to do with the legal aspect Nicholas.

I:	Yeah.

R:	So, you know, I think that’s what it is, and I think it’s because I don’t know, I 
mean, how non-CTIMP is really seen previously. 

I:	Mhm.

R:	So it’s just for me a, I mean all clinical trials are, you know, are using patient 
notes, patient safety, patient, you know, wellbeing so it should really be treated as 
one but although we’re not using a drug you know, substance so but still, you know, 
the process should be the same but I think, yeah I think I mean part of it is, you 
know, is resources.  I think that’s one, you know, I mean I know that is one of the 
factor is resources. It’s just, you know, normally there’s one sponsor each in each 
[organisation], you know, luckily you have two or three but most it’s probably just this 
one person dealing with thousands of applications, you know, CTIMPs and non-
CTIMPs and staff and student research.

I:	Right okay and then so we’ve talked a little bit about you know, I’ve 
mentioned a couple of times Brexit happening but have you since you’ve been 
working in this area for a little bit I’m wondering if sort of if you’ve heard of or 
and if it’s impacted your work at all, some of the you know, there was the 
letters from the that the House of Commons Science and Technology 
Committee sent out to a bunch of sponsors about registering and reporting.  
There’s the recent HRA strategy. I’m wondering if and then of course how 
Brexit might impact some of these things.  I’m wondering if these have 
crossed your, you know, your inbox and Universe at all and in what ways and 
how if it’s impacted anything that you’re doing concerning these areas?

R:	As Trial Manager, as far as I know, I’ve just been proactively asking about it 
but I’ve not really been given any say instruction of how to deal with things apart 
from carry on as it is, nothing’s changed.

I:	Okay.

R:	And then in terms of the R&D that on it’s more or less the same, so the NHS 
Board is kind of like telling us that, you know, “Business as usual, we’ll let you know 
when things basically start happening because there still is, it’s still under 
negotiation.” So, in terms of like the data, contract, [um] samples, drugs, you know, 
all of that [um] storage, it’s all still being apparently discussed, and no proper policy 
or framework is in place yet, that’s my understanding to date.

I:	Okay and then, you mentioned UKTMN earlier and I’m wondering talking 
about either that resource or other resources like is that like a resource you go 
to learn about this sort of thing or are there other resources you go to learn 
about, you know, registration reporting things like that, you know, what 
resources like UKTMN do you go to and how do those work as far as informing 
you about these sorts of things, trial transparency topics?

R:	Yeah, I I’m relying on mainly when I was doing my previous study under the 
instruction guidance of the CTU Managers, you know, the seniors and the Directors 
and with that, with that the UKTMN because I’m a member.  At the time as well, in 
one of the say meeting, workshop that we did it touched base on public registration.  
I think that was the, somebody from, somebody came and talked to us about, it was 
the last UKTMN conference I was there and somebody came and talked about public 
registration.  I can’t remember who it was.

I:	It might have been me. [laughs]

R:	Was that you? Yeah I was gonna say, well, you know, you did a really good 
presentation but no so I was quite glad because I was at the time that’s just you 
know what happened, you know, where I’ve basically gone through, you know, with 
my own studies  and when I was there, when I was speaking to some of the Trial 
Managers there again it’s the same kind of like scenario as CTIMP definitely they 
register on EudraCT so public registration they’re safe but with the non-CTIMP 
studies in their CTU not all is registered because it’s not recommended, well it’s not 
mandatory.

I:	Yeah.

R:	So we were in the same kind of like position but when you mention it I think 
everyone’s kind of like yeah in a way not taken aback but they’ve got more 
understanding of really the importance of it and I kind of like, you know, I explained 
to them what happened to my, you know, my experience and they were kind of like, 
‘Oh okay then,’ you know, it’s something that they have to kind of think back and kind 
of make sure it doesn’t happen to the [um] and that group there was [em] because 
they were all like CTIMPs and non-CTIMPs so I think the majority of them did 
register before recruitment.

I:	Yeah.

R:	But in terms of [the university] sponsor and CTUs I don’t know what the other, 
you know, group, clinical groups are doing in because that’s something what would 
be really quite nice is to have a network within the University, but I don’t know if 
that’s gonna happen.

I:	Right.

R:	It’s, you know, share kind of like, share learned lessons type thing.

I:	Yeah, you’re not getting any-.

R:	At the moment, there’s nothing like that.

I:	Yeah, okay so you weren’t getting like from like UKT, UK the Trial 
Managers Network, you weren’t sort of getting anything, there was no like, like 
you went to the conference, and you talked to people but there was nothing 
sort of like, no education or proactive outreach about this sort of thing to the 
network as far as you saw?

R:	No, not from then up till now, no.

I:	Okay right.

R:	But it was because I think in a way it’s been touched on, you know, I think 
peoples moved on from it.

I:	Yeah Okay so that was actually I believe my final question but I usually 
just like to give an opportunity, you know, is there anything else that’s on your 
mind about what we’ve talked about today or anything else that’s popped up 
that you were expecting for me to ask but I didn’t ask about all of this?

R:	Yeah, I think I asked earlier on it’s like, you know, from the other interviews 
that you’ve done what is their understanding, their perspective of clinical registration, 
public registration?

I:	Yeah so, I’ve talked to mainly people from like a research governance 
point of view so far so-.

R:	Research Governance so what is there? So that’s interesting.

I:	Yeah, yeah so I mean it’s still, you’re only my my third interview overall 
so it’s still very early in the process but yeah it’s interesting to hear the 
different perspectives about like from you, who’s the one doing the actual 
registration, to like them, who are the people who are sort of setting the 
guidance and the policy and make, and, you know, and the people in charge of 
sort of making sure that this stuff happens and the communication about it. So 
yeah you know, it’s tough for me to sort of say anything holistically now 
because like I said I’m still pretty early on in my interviews.

R:	Yeah, yeah.

I:	but yeah, you know, that’s the, when I. when I send my results, I hope it 
will be chock full of answers like that for you. [laughs]

R:	[laughs] No because that would be really interesting you know, hearing it 
from, are you including ethics as well in this process?

I:	 I’m not, it I haven’t talked to them I haven’t practically reached out to 
like ethics committees or anything like that, I’ve mainly focused on like 
research governance, trial managers and I’m hoping to maybe talk to some 
research integrity office people as well.

R:	Yeah, yeah.

I:	But that is sort of the main focus but if, if, it came, if like, so for example 
a lot of other people were like, ‘Oh you should talk to an ethics committee 
about this,’ then I might go and try to look, you know, I can, I can adapt as I 
hear more things from people.

R:	No, you see for me it’s not ethics responsibility, it’s the sponsors responsibility 
ultimately, you know, as part of the say the GCP, you know, concern and the UK 
framework it’s the sponsor. I’m sure somebody, research governance will possibly 
argue that. The other thing is it would be interesting to know what the CIs 
perspective?

I:	Yeah so, I’m specifically avoiding CIs for this study just because I want 
the institutional perspective and I wanna leave, I want to get everyone but the 
CIs basically.  [laughs]

R:	Yeah no that’s fine, I don’t blame you.  What about Clinical Trials Directors?

I: 	Yeah, yeah so that’s like, that’s I would definitely talk to like I’d put in 
touch with the clinical with a direct-, like a CTU director or someone like that, 
yeah that’s also, even if that is also a PI, that’s. I would definitely talk to 
someone like that if I got put in touch as well, yeah.

R:	Yeah no it’s just again because, you know, for me it’s the people in the lead 
should be directing this recommendation, you know, for all trials but this, at the end 
of the day in a way part of it is being blamed on say the workers rather than the 
leaders but as they’re the one who’s supposed to be, you know, making sure but 
yeah I mean, it’ll be interesting Nicholas to receive information from you in time.

I:	Absolutely and yeah and very interesting to hear your perspective so 
thank, thank you very much.  [recording switched off]
