I:	So just to get us started can you tell me a bit about your role?

R:	Yeah, I’ve been at [my University] for probably 20, just over 20 years.  I’ve 
been running the clinical trials unit there for more than 15 years now, so I started in 
that role just as the clinical trial came in and the remit of the unit is, you know, NIHR, 
UKCRC clinical trials, large multicentre clinical trials typically.  We started out 
specialising in [disease area] within one school of the University over the years we, 
we made the case that it made sense to expand and support other, other areas and 
so now we support trials across the whole of [the University] and yeah so we, we 
basically work with statisticians, data managers, trial managers running a range of 
clinical trials, everything from early, you know, pre-registration device trials through 
to big multicentre pragmatic, you know, international late phase studies, so every 
every myriad of everything.

I:	And that includes CTIMPs, you’ve got to run CTIMPs as well, yeah?


R:	Yeah, yeah. Now [this University] is unusual in that we have a separate 
sponsor office, well I don’t know how unusual this is actually, there’s a separate 
sponsor office so obviously every organisation will have some sort of sponsor office 
but in many places they’re very, I don’t know what the right word is, tick box light 
touch, very much NHS R&D, you know, go through checks, sign off but really not 
very involved in the actual conduct. Unusual at [this University] they, they put 
together a joint office purely for CTIMP responsibilities back in, I don’t know, 2004, 
something like that and so that group is very heavily resourced but only focused on 
CTIMPs and so we’ve ended up with, with a, you know, a huge, I think there’s 
something like 35 full time staff just overseeing the CTIMP studies of which there’s 
probably about 80 or 90 at any one time so it’s a very high level of oversight. And so 
there’s a bit of a two tier thing where CTIMPs I’m sure you’re aware, you know, [the 
University] will have perfect reporting of CTIMPs.  It’ll be [perfect] because there’s 
this huge resource that of course everything must be reported because there’s so 
much manpower and it’s very telling actually, it’s a very good you know, yeah, it’s, 
yeah, it’s a 15-year study and what happens when you highly control one element 
and don’t control the other element.  
So non-CTIMP studies are largely left to their own devices organisationally. And so, 
as a CTU many years ago, I’m sure you know CTUs well enough to know that, you 
know, a CTU might run half a dozen studies and in some places, they will be very 
much, you know, pick out the cream of the crop. They want the high impact, you 
know, big hitting good papers and shouldn’t and could take the best ideas and make 
them great which is good.  We took a slightly different approach which was yes do 
those studies but many years ago we also looked across the organisation and 
thought well there are lots of researchers trying to do research well and they simply 
don’t have the infrastructure to do it well. 
And even with the best will in the world they’ll fail and so we decided to do things like 
provide randomisation services cheaply to those studies, even if we did nothing else 
[and there were some anxieties about, ‘Oh but, you know, couldn’t they run a study 
really badly and the CTU had supported it.’ It’s like well, ‘they could but they’ll have 
run it a little bit better if we take randomisation, make it independent.’

I:	Yeah.

R:	It would run a little better if we’d run an EDC [Electronic Data Capture] system 
and then actually involved in designing their data collection packs so all of those 
things will makes things a little better and so we’ve been running that as a strategy 
for many many years and right from the first study back in 2004, 2005, you know, 
we, we decided to mandate that if a study used our randomisation system, we 
wouldn’t make the system live until we saw their public register.
So, in a very simple way, it just became an easy control to scoop up as many of the 
study’s organisationally as we could.  At the very least, let them use our 
randomisation service and as part of that process we would just sit there going, “You 
still haven’t got your registration, we’ll make it live, just need your registration. Do 
you want us to help us with your registration but register it? “And actually, that 
worked, worked well because it was very apparent back then that more than half of 
investigators had no idea about the Journal Editor’s statement.  They didn’t know 
they were meant to register their trial.  It wasn’t ill intent; they just didn’t know.

I:	Yeah of course.

R:	And actually, that was a very easy way of making people aware of that and 
our main concern was the people didn’t get to the end of the study and found they 
couldn’t publish it so that was a quick easy hitter but that only hit the studies that 
happened to come to the CTU.  I mean we’re now, I think we’re now providing 
randomisation for about half of all trials across the organisation but not a 100 per 
cent of them.

R:	No, we’ve, we’ve managed to have one thankfully so avoided, we’ve avoided 
[multiple]. [laughs] [Short non-relevant interlude with identifying information removed] 
Yeah, it gets a bit well the trouble is you think, you know, the multiple teams of QA 
Managers and uff yeah doesn’t make sense. Anyway, so no we’ve been, we’ve been 
fortunate we’ve managed to hold it one which has helped but we’re not mandatory 
and I think that’s the key and we’ve and there have been mutterings over the years 
of making investigators work with our CTU and I’ve always resisted those because I 
never think that’s the way to do things.  I think there has to be academics must have 
choice.



R:	So, we’ve never been mandatory, we, we have no particular desire to be 
mandatory but we’re happy to help whoever comes. What the University has lacked 
historically is a proper central governance structure for all other research.  That isn’t 
CTIMPs because there’s the College Ethics Committee and obviously there’s a 
sponsor signatory for ethics applications that go through REC but really there’s not, 
historically, not been much scrutiny of those and so there’s no mechanism to chase 
to make sure that they are reported and things like that so, you know, back, back in 
the day when the AllTrials initiative first sort of appeared it was us that drove getting 
[the University] to sign up to it.  It was us that sort of tried to get the organisation a bit 
more engaged with the idea that that this is, that this is an issue that isn’t going 
away.  



R:	There is a problem here. Yes, we’ve solved registration up to a point but it’s 
still not there, but the world is catching up, you know, the ethics committees, it’s 
becoming normal to register trials but publications still weren’t brilliant and the 
timeline to publication wasn’t great. There was a bit of a roadblock organisationally in 
that there was one person who just didn’t see there was a problem and I think what 
they really meant was they could see there was a problem but couldn’t see that there 
was a way of solving it without spending money



R:	So the [name] who I put you in contact with, I’m not sure if [they’ve] been back 
in touch with you but [they’re] charged with setting up a sort of integrity governance 
for all research across the University and so in the long run I think it’s [their] office 
that will probably be tasked with making sure that there are systems to track things 
through.  In the meantime, you know, things have happened, so things like when 
you’re putting a grant in there are trigger points where the various forms and 
processes you go through alert you to the fact that there’s an expectation everything 
will publish, that, you know, everything must be registered, that, you know, all that 
sort of thing. I still think it should be driven through ethics quite frankly, I think it 
would be more efficient to do it at national level.



R:	Well, I think the, I think the effect of publication bias I think is fairly evident 
when you look at the data and the number of trials that are missing from, from the 
evidence base and I think there’s been a very good job by AllTrials to make people 
aware of that, to publicise it. I think that it’s probably a bigger issue in many ways for 
Industry because I think the trials that don’t publish in the public sector mostly not 
exclusively but mostly are trials that don’t matter



R:	 and I’ve tended to find over the years because I’m paying quite a lot of 
attention to this internally, the ones that fall by the wayside not always but most of 
them tend to be small feasibility type studies and I definitely lose interest in it. It’s 
rare of big definitive interesting studies, even if it’s a negative result to fall by the 
wayside.  It does happen but it’s it’s more rare.

I:	Sure.

R:	And on the whole, I’ve tended to find, and this is entirely anecdotally, when 
you speak to investigators it’s clear that the ones that have fallen by the wayside is 
because they’ve made a judgement that clinically it really isn’t gonna make much 
difference to anybody, even if that was out there in the world.  
Whereas the reasons for publication bias within Industry are very different.  The 
reason their results don’t become public or didn’t become public historically were for 
very different reasons that are likely more damaging.  I think it’s still good practice to 
get them all out there, but I think, you know, the trials that we end up chasing for 
publications and for results mostly are negative and but more importantly mostly are 
very poor quality.  

I:	. What so, what does and then you said also that your office is also 
willing to offer help for registration and things like that can you just talk about, 
a bit more about what that looks like to me.  So I’m an investigator, I’m looking 
at getting a trial started.  I want to, you know, work with the CTU.


R:	Yeah if it’s a CTIMP then well up until recently that would have been EudraCT 
and so the Uber office with loads of money does that so we don’t worry ourselves too 
much about that because they can sort those out.  So, for the non-CTIMPs people 
have to choose usually between clincialtrials.gov and ISRCTN. Sometimes it’s 
simply us reminding us that it’s a funder requirement of their funding body that they 
go to ISRCTN and they just haven’t noticed because they didn’t’ read the letter 
properly. [laughs] and sometimes that if that’s NIHR funded, they pay for it and again 
people often haven’t picked up on the fact that there’s a system for that.  You just 
need to do it but it’s not that difficult.  So signposting is what all that most people 
need. For the ones that want to go to trials.gov again pointing them in the direction of 
the sort of administrator within the organisation who controls that so that they can 
help them if they get stuck.  We find people have more trouble with trials.gov than all 
trials, oh sorry than ISRCTN just because I don’t know, ISRCTN they’re a bit more 
human, you can actually speak to people.  Trials.gov, from what I gather they send 
communications out to people and literally they can’t interpret the words that are 
being said, they don’t know what they’re being asked to do and they just get, really 
sent up a roadblock so I prefer to send people to ISRCTN and so what we’ve done 
more recently because the vast majority of studies are being scooped up and get to 
ISRCTN either by through the funders or whatever, it’s working quite well and so the 
few that fall by the wayside we decided that what we would do is we’ve set up an 
arrangement with ISRCTN where we pre-pay for registrations so that rather than the 
investigators having to fiff faff about, figuring out how to pay them because that 
seems to be the biggest barrier. [laughs]



R:	So, we said well, you know, that appears to be as far as I can work out the 
biggest problem so we’ll pay them for I don’t know, 20 or 30 registrations up front 
and that way we can just say to people, ‘Here’s, here’s your number’ and we’ll just 
cross charge you.”



R:	I think we’re the first organisation ISRCTN have done that with, but we said 
we’d try it out for a while see how it goes because it’s not many studies now, so we 
may as well just try find an easy solution for those.  I’d rather we go to ISRCTN, I 
don’t like trials.gov


R:	Investigators like trials.gov because it’s free.



R:	I don’t, I don’t even think it’s more bureaucracy and faff. I think there’s a lack 
of intelligence coming back from trials.gov

I:	Okay.

R:	you know, when, when I interact with ISRCTN there’s a flexibility and a 
thoughtfulness about them so they will recognize that if they’ve been trying to contact 
an investigator for the last ten years to get the result of a trial and that investigator 
has long since moved on from [the University] and, you know, they’re probably 
findable somewhere in the world. If I can track down a paper that looks like the 
primary paper and I can reasonably read it and say yes, I believe that this paper links 
to that trial, they’re perfectly comfortable with me emailing them and saying, as far as 
I can figure out this one goes with that one and somebody will actually read the 
paper and see whether they agree, and they will link it even if the person who set up 
the account isn’t there to do it.  No chance in hell with trials.gov.


R:	Just not gonna happen [laughs] or they expect that it’s your decision whatever 
you like and it’s like a bit of, a bit of iteration would be nice because, you know, with 
the ISRCTN, you know, they can see, you know, somebody in the organisation’s 
trying to sort this out.  The person who ran the study is long long gone and we’re just 
trying to do a sweep through and tidy up loose ends from old studies but it feels a bit 
more collaborative and a bit more can do.

I:	Interesting.

R:	Than than trials.gov.  



R:	Exactly so, you know, with those ones we, we have a process where we’ll 
make an exception, let the study start recruiting on the expectation that any day now 
this is gonna appear in the public domain so, you know, but if, and we also I think we 
have a process where if a study’s exempt from registering for some reason we’ll 
allow those to go ahead but all of that is built in because again the administrators 
don’t know which, which are okay and which aren’t. They just follow a process of it’s 
either there or it’s not and that’s that.



R:	Again, depends on what we’re doing, so if all we’ve done is a randomisation 
service then, for a study then what we will do is I mean the randomisation service 
goes up that’s the end of it as far as we’re concerned until the study ends and then 
the administrators would keep bothering the investigator for the primary paper so 
even if all we’ve done is a £500 randomisation service they just get these really 
irritating emails from us saying, “Have you published yet? Have you published yet? 
Did you get one, oh well done you, you’ve finished, have you published yet though?  
[laughs] ‘Our records suggest that you’re about to publish, have you published?’ 
[laughs] Thanks for coming.

R:	but I mean they log everything so they just, you know, every quarter they do a 
sweep through and contact everybody where and if they say we’re not going to 
publish for another year, we just put it back by a year and then we’ll turn up again, 
going ‘Hello, us again.’  So we do that on everything, everything where we’ve done 
randomisation. If we’re not otherwise involved in the study, then we wouldn’t pick up 
if they do a protocol change and they don’t update the register.



R:	But if we have also built them a database system for the study, then a 
protocol change that changes the eligibility criteria should trigger the database to be 
updated and as part of that process they would check back to see if they’ve updated 
them in the protocol have they updated their public register so there would be a 
prompt to the team.  Again, their responsibility to do it but we would prompt them to 
say, you know, we’ve notice you haven’t, you might want to do that.  


R:	If we hadn’t of done the database as well and then if we have any people 
involved in the studies, you know, Trial Managers, statisticians, health comms or 
whatever then I would expect yes and TMGs, that would be routinely picked up and 
and dealt with.

We do get involved in in externally sponsored CTIMPs where there is no, our, our 
sponsor office wouldn’t be involved in those and as of for those we just do exactly 
the same, we, we don’t do anything differently.



R:	For the studies where we’re actually running them, yes. For the studies where 
we’ve got the publications what we started doing is that with ISRCTN and trials.gov, I 
think every, it’s either once every six months or once a year, we pull off everything 
unpublished organisationally and we do a sweep through to see if there’s any that 
we’ve got a record that they’ve been published that are not showing as having 
results on the register.



R:	And it’s quicker for us to do it as a sweep through everything and this is where 
I found ISRCTN incredibly helpful because they were perfectly happy for us to in 
fact, they were so helpful because they’re downloading function wasn’t working 
properly for me and I couldn’t everything that I wanted nicely and so they did me an 
export. And they were comfortable with us just updating the whole spreadsheet, 
sending it back to them and they would just go through it which was, it’s helpful just 
[laughs] And in some cases because the reason I first started talking to them years 
ago was because within the [our organisation] our email addresses have all changed 
in one part of the organisations, so they were chasing investigators on email 
addresses that that didn’t exist anymore. 


R:	And so, we first got in touch with them because we could see all these 
registrations, saying, ‘Oh contacted so and so at this email address, no response, no 
response.’ And I thought, ‘Well you’re never gonna get a response. They’re going 
into the abyss; they’re not going to be going anywhere.’  And so we’d contacted them 
and sort of given them a list of all the updated email addresses of all those 
investigators because a lot of them were still at [the University] and yeah periodically 
whenever we had time we sort of dipped in and had but it’s not been very, it’s been a 
case of just fitting it in when there’s time with, you know, we’re, we’re not tasked with 
doing it organisationally, we’re not, it’s not necessarily our responsibility but we’ve 
sort of done sweeps through because it’s, it’s a sensible thing to do and until the 
organisation gets itself to a point where it does do it systematically which I’ve always 
thought is bound to come eventually so it’s just doing what we can on no resource 
until they sort of wake up and get there or ethics takes it over, I don’t mind which.



R:	Yeah there’s a few teams where we’ve gone back to them and said, “Look if 
you’re really are never gonna publish and I’ll tell you this is almost always where it’s 
PhD student project. Almost always, so where we can with student projects, we’ve 
tried to make sure that the thesis goes into ETHOS.


R:	But I sort of think well it’s not bad, it’s out there. It’s written up somewhere and 
it’s publicly available so in my mind it’s probably the best they’re gonna get.
We have pointed a few PhD supervisors because usually by the time we find these 
ones these PhD students have long given up on academia. They’re now working in a 
bank somewhere. They’re ain’t gonna do anything about this. [laughs] Yeah they’re 
primary school teachers now [laughs] so they’re not gonna do anything about it and 
quite frankly it was a student project


R:	it’s a learning exercise and I do think there needs to be recognition that there 
is, should be a separation between what is meant to be a learning exercise and a 
clinical trial. And we have worked really hard to try to make sure we don’t have Phd 
students doing things like CTIMPs because you can’t let a CTIMP fail so how can 
you let a PhD student do it as their project without giving them an unfair advantage 
over other PhD students so I think there’s a lack of recognition that that PhD student 
projects are different.  You must be allowed to do a bad PhD, you know, if you and 
your supervisors elect to do an unpublishable PhD then it should be unpublished 
beyond the dissertation write-up and there is a process to get dissertations into the 
public domain and I actually don’t see why that isn’t good enough but a couple of 
supervisors I have gone back to them and said, “Look, ISRCTN have a process for 
you to upload the results, but you have to put it all into their format 



R:	In the early days it was interesting, the early days when they didn’t know 
about the Journal Editor’s statement the early response was, you know, “Aren’t they 
being ridiculous? What a lot of nonsense. We’re academics, don’t you know type 
thing.” That wasn’t, that that waned fairly quickly the the biggest objection was 
having to pay out money.  


R:	So this sort of idea there was some kind of a money making scam so you 
know what people can be like. Again, who owns ISR, who owns ISRCTN, who’s 
benefiting from it. This idea that somebody was making a profit on the back of 
whatever so there was a bit of that in the very early days. Once you pointed them to 
the Journal editors’ statement they tended to hush up.  I think once they could see 
that it was, you know, it really was the Journal Editors, let’s not, you know, they’re 
not, they’re not peeing around here, this is what they mean. They’re not joking, just 
do it. So actually, I think most people accepted that this is a good thing in principle 
and the main resistance was the actual bureaucracy of doing it, not the principle. A 
few people objected because they felt that would make their ideas public and that 
others could then steal their ideas.  So early on there was a few, certainly the, the 
sort of the more novel, earlier type stuff and there was a sort of suspicion that 
somehow this would be damaging to them because people would know about the 
research too early. But like I say, it was very clear that that world has changed so 
just get used to it move on, you know. You don’t get that anymore but in the early 
days there was definitely an element of that. What other? Definitely the early days 
this idea that, you know, well they didn’t believe the journal editor would really not 
publish a good trial just because it wasn’t registered and I think a few had to be 
made examples of before they really believe that did in fact happen.



R:	Oh yes, no we had one, we had one when somebody turned up at out office 
had been rejected for not registering and it was a trial we hadn’t been involved with 
but she was just completely distraught because she knew nothing about it and I was 
like well, ‘should have come to us.’ [laughs] But it was, you know, they just end up in 
a worst journal. So really from the early days we just always framed it that this 
something that’s really important to do unless you’d like to publish in the Beano.



I:	Great so in terms of so it sounds like a lot of the, so if when people are 
actually say like entering the registration information like onto, onto the 
ISRCTN or clincialtrials.gov or uploading results there if that’s a requirement 
or if they were just choosing to or whatever [who, so who is generally, is that 
like sitting within the study team usually or yeah?

R:	Yep, in the study team, yeah and I know some organisations have sort of got 
people to do it for them.


R:	  If you try to get, the only way that people can do it for you is you literally 
have a process where somebody’s handing it to them. They’ll get it wrong, even with 
our own group, the administrators don’t have to go to the investigators to get the 
publications.  They will, they will quite often do a search on PubMed. They’ll try and 
find it themselves, but they still have to go back to the investigator say, you know, 
we’re looking for the primary paper. Is this the primary paper?



R:	And, you know, we’ve, we’ve had post-docs in our team who have sat down to 
look at two or three papers trying to work out which one is the primary and, you 
know, they’ve struggled because you might have two or three ISRCTN registrations 
that are quite similar involving the same team and you’re trying to discern and then 
they haven’t quoted their blessed registration number in any of them [laughs] and so 
the trouble is the moment you turn it into a administrator click button, you’ll just get 
mistakes, things uploaded against the wrong entries which is why, you know, I can’t 
help thinking it would make more sense to have this done through the ethics 
committees, the HRA because then, you know, it’s attached to the correct project 
and then only those studies that don’t go through NHS Ethics are left to scoop up. 
Yeah, no like I say I was just trying to minimise it and I still think it’d be daft to have, I 
mean I already know some organisations are employing, you know, staff just to data 
on the registries but the moment you do that you detach it from the actual academics 
doing it and then they’ll just do it wrong.  




R:	And the only commonality we have is that every piece of, every clinical trial 
with human participants goes through an ethics committee and that is, that is the 
common path and if that’s the common path that has to be path for, you know, it 
can’t even be the NHS. We do studies in prisons, we do studies in schools, we do 
studies in the community.  It, it can’t be the NHS or the Universities, it must be the 
ethics committees to my mind but I’ve no idea what they’ve actually decided to do.  
I’ve always assumed at some point registration would become a condition of ethics 
approval and at some point, rather than closing ethics at last patient, last visit or 
doing an end of study declaration when you’ve locked your dataset which isn’t the 
end of the study.  The end of the study is when you have presented your results to 
the world.  



R:	So, to me they’ve always closed them too early.  The study isn’t finished until 
the study is published and if you have to keep paying or doing annual reports then 
then it keeps it focused in the front of your mind.  It’s a bit like that annoying email 
saying, ‘Have you finished yet?’ If you keep getting a reminder that that your study is 
still open because you still haven’t published year after year after year then sooner 
or later, you’ll give up and publish it.  [laughs]


R:	There’s a click button to say, is it going to ISRCTN so it will automatically 
transfer if it’s being funded by NIHR 


R:	and then we’ve worked out some mechanism with ISRCTN so that if it’s not 
being funded then we can gift them one of our pre-paid spots.


R:	And, and that way every time there’s a protocol amendment that that should 
automatically flow because those two things being connected together would make a 
lot of sense  but I don’t know if they’re planning on doing.  I mean I don’t know if it’s 
going to be an opt in system where people can choose to use it or what the plans 
are.  


R:	Yeah, I think from what the ISRCTN, from discussions with ISRCTN and the 
Trial Managers it sounds as if when you’re doing your IRAS application if you click 
something to say that your funder is covering the cost of IRSCTN, I think it auto 
populates from one to, but I could be wrong.



R:	But I certainly got the impression it was a very seamless easy process 
certainly for NHIR funded studies and depending on when the team to go and get the 
registration, I think some will have gone ahead and done it in advance of doing that 
step.  I think it’s a bit haphazard I think as to how it flows but I, it’s not, no study has 
not been able to do it or has hit a massive roadblock.  Payment seems to be the 
biggest problem as people’s excuses to why they didn’t do it.


R:	Very, very much bottom up because the, what drove the CTIMPs sponsor 
office was of course the legislation and you’ll all go to prison a couple of years if and 
so when the regulation came in there was lots of, you know, whipped up hyper-
anxiety about the MHRA, lots of investment, great that’s, that’s all to the good but it 
the downside of that is it also created a mentality that if there isn’t a regulator who’s 
going to put you in prison then it doesn’t matter and so one of the things we’ve been 
battling against and the chap who’s left, it’s good that he’s left. He only heard the 
voice of the CTIMP studies.

R:	So, every time we would try to be heard because we were in Faculty whereas 
the CTIMP group were in the core of the College.  We’ve now moved over there as 
well so it makes it easier as well but we, because we were in Faculty, you know what 
it’s like when you sit in Faculty, there’s layers and layers to get through before 
anybody hears anything you say and so you’ve got somebody in the core of the 
organisation saying, here we have the regulation trials. It’s all about the regulator 
trials, the regulators, the regulators and we’re just a voice in the wilderness 
screaming, “But what about good science, what about good science, what about 
good science?” and of course there’s no penalty for bad science. So as long as 
they’re getting grants and they’re getting publications and REF is looking okay, 
where’s the incentive to chase the grotty little trials that didn’t publish.  There isn’t an 
actual incentive, and nobody is driven particularly organisationally but it’s a good 
thing to do.  You know, my argument is very simple, if you’ve got junior researchers 
doing those little feasibility studies, doing their PhDs, learning good practice from day 
one sets them up to be good investigators.  If they learn on day one it doesn’t really 
matter then you send them out into the world thinking that actually it doesn’t matter.  
So, you, know, I think it’s bad training to let people believe that it doesn’t matter but I 
accept that that’s because I’m working in trials. I do understand, I step back, I look 
from an organisational perspective, there isn’t much of an incentive. 

R:	and again, we just keep repeating that there’s as much of a problem here as, 
you know, CTIMPs great, we’re, we’re a bit ahead of the game but there is still a 
problem and it’s only a matter of time before that problem emerges and whether that 
comes through the HRA or ethics or where, sooner or later it, you know, it’s going to 
get to the point where it become apparent, so the freedom of information requests 
have helped so whatshisname I’ve forgotten his name.  Who’s that chap that always 
does the freedom of information requests?


R:	Till, yeah. So again, you know, I actually find it quite helpful when he sends in 
those requests because it brings it back on the agenda. Because it’s a reminder that 
that it’s not just CTIMPs, there are other studies and so I think what happened, I 
think Till had sent in a request about something about what are our policies for all 
trials and of course the organisation automatically sends it to the CTIMP people who 
answer it only about CTIMPs and what was good is he he kept coming back going 
“Na, na, I’m not only talking about CTIMPs, what about everything else?”  



R:	And its good because it reinforced exactly what we’d been saying for a long 
time which is there’s a wider problem here.  Luckily that all coincided with the chap 
who was obstructive leaving and someone else coming in whose a bit more mindful 
that that actually this, there’s a wider piece here and so he’s now pushed for budget 
to set up a team within [an internal] group to really focus on lots of things, not just 
this but this is definitely on the agenda as this isn’t, you know, something that we can 
ignore. And we’ve done exercises and going through, cause he’s asked me about 
what is the cause, what is, from our experience of what we’ve seen what are the 
things that are affecting trial publications, what’s delays, what’s blocking them and 
it’s like I say the majority it’s PhD student, maternity leave bizarrely is a huge barrier.


R:	I think our record is like seven or eight years.  We had two trials that were oh 
painfully long.  They did, they both got published in the end and again it wasn’t 
because anyone was being awful



R:	 I work on a two-year run in my head, so I don’t get too het up until something 
hits the two-year barrier and then I start to get irritated with them but then maybe I’m 
too optimistic because a year, well it depends on when you define the end of the trial 
but if you’re looking at database log or last patient last visit by the time you’ve done 
the analysis and you’ve been rejected a couple of times, a year isn’t very long and so 
I only really start to worry when things start to teet-, teeter over the two-year mark 
personally but in that’s the face of there’s so much out there that needs tidying up 
that you know, when it goes beyond two years I start emailing because again 
administrators emailing investigators saying have you published has an effect but if 
they ignore them sooner or later somebody has to email them where they’re more 
likely to pay attention.  And so, having an escalation path to be able to sort of, you 
know, either have me email then or if that doesn’t work get somebody who will scare 
them a bit more to email them.


R:	Well if they’re, you know, if the Head of Research for the organisation, 
Professor whoever contacts them saying, “You know, we have been informed, you, 
we’re a bit-,” and it’s usually phrased nicely “bit concerned about this one, apparently 
it’s been hanging around for a while, what’s going on?” then, you know, that that 
makes you sit and I mean it’s difficult there’s no reward for publishing your trials. If 
you know it’s going to be going into a grotty journal, it’s going to do nothing for your 
REF impact.  It’s not going to generate your grant income and you’re trying to avoid 
getting culled in the next round of academic culling, I can completely understand why 
they’re going to prioritise writing more grants over tidying up the loose ends of an old 
paper.


R:	Yeah, and I think but I think there’s a very big difference between you did a 
HTA trial and never published it which I think would be almost impossible. It would 
be almost impossible to have a major NIHR HTA EME grant and never publish it. 
That’s, that’s unheard of because the funders drive it. It’s the little RfPB [Research for 
Patient Benefit] feasibilities that that can wane but more likely the ones that really 
don’t get published are the ones where you’ve got a little pot of money from industry 
or charity or PhD student project and nobody’s driving it and the reality is NIHR are 
only going to pay attention to studies that weren’t published that they funded.  


R:	You know, I find myself contacting jobbing clinicians, going, “Do you 
remember that study you did in 2007? Have you still got the dataset?  You know, I 
realise you’re in Dorset now, but you never did publish it.” [laughs]

I:	Yeah, what is the response to that when you sort of have to do that 
retrospective that like people long gone outreach?

R:	Depends, depends where they’ve gone to, so if they’re still in academia it’s 
kind of like, ‘oh yeah-,’ all sorts of excuses like, you know, my email got archived so I 
can’t understand, I can’t figure out how to unarchive the dataset because it’s buried 
in my email somewhere to  “I’ll, I’ll try and get to it.”  The latest one is “I’ve got Long 
Covid, can’t do anything.”

I
R:	No, there’s a couple who’ve been honest and have said, “It’s never going to 
be published” and those are the ones who said, “Look here’s the format the data 
would need to be put into ISRCTN,” and I find it a bit irritating that they want the raw 
data in a very specific format that involves work to get it into that format.


R:	Yeah, but you’re effectively taking all the data breaking it down by trial arm 
and presenting it in tables.  Somebody would have to spend some time on it to get it 
into that format. 
Trials that are abandoned, I have a bit of bugbear with trials that are abandoned 
because if trial didn’t reach anywhere near its target, they still want, if anybody was 
randomised, they still want to present it that way.  Now if you randomise six patients 
into a study and then the study died, what, what for?

R:	If they would accept that there are some historic trials where it’s gone beyond 
x number of years, where you say, “Look even if it’s a paragraph to say, we started 
the study. We recruited six people. It died a death, we never even collected any 
outcome data, or we got 23 people, or we analysed it, there was nothing to see, 
nothing to see here, it was a mess.”  But usually it’s because it was such a flippin’ 
mess and sometimes, they don’t even have the datasets anymore, they’ve lost them, 
or, you know, it’s somewhere but they can’t lay their hands on it and I don’t know if 
you saw the paper [a colleague] wrote.  [They] wrote up…a paper saying he found 
himself at a dinner party I think with Ben Goldacre on one side and Ian Chalmers on 
the other [laughs] and had to admit that he had a proper, a real proper solid 
unfunded trial, an unpublished trial much to his embarrassment and shame and they 
ended up going back and publishing it, but [they] wrote up the fact that [they] had 
had a unpublished trial and, you know, hands up it can happen to anyone.

R:	Can’t say I have, I have, I know, I know some organisations have employed 
people to make sure trials are registered and published. I don’t know of any 
Universities are doing that, I think it’s mainly the NHS Trusts but I haven’t paid a 
huge amount of attention it’s just something that verbals a lot.  I mean I’ve always 
worked on the basis in the long run it’s not going to particularly be our problem 
because I think in the long term it will be solved in national level through the HRA or 
something like that so, you know, I’ve, I’ve never it’s always felt as if it’s just a 
holding pattern, do what we can until it’s solved properly.

R:	Yeah, and partly, partly because I’m mindful that because I’ve been in post for 
so long a lot of the people are people I know or knew before they left. So the vast 
majority of people I’ve been emailing I’ve at least had email contact or met them in 
the past and so it’s more likely I’ll get a response if it’s me emailing saying, “Hey Paul 
do you remember me?” or, you know, “Hi Professor Blah, how’s it going over there in 
Oxford, there’s this trial you didn’t publish.” But because they would have known me 
at some point, I just think that there’s an opportunity to try to get some of those done 
in a timescale whereas five years from now or ten years from now, I think that 
opportunity may be lost either because people will have retired or died or, you know, 
whatever and so we thought actually, ‘let’s just sweep through, make the historic 
stuff as good as we can and hopefully the prospective stuff will sort itself out.

R:	Yeah, I mean if it was done through the HRA then it would probably be the 
NHS R&D offices that would hear about it first because things tend to get cascaded 
to them. I presume that [my colleague] in the sponsors office must get information 
cascaded in the same way, I don’t really know. We would probably hear about it 
through the UKCRC, they usually publicise things that change so it would probably 
come out through, through them and usually there would be some kind of 
consultation exercise, if they just change it so we’d probably hear about it through 
that so yeah.


I:	Just a chance to wrap up.

R:	No, I think I think that’s okay.  I think, I think the PhD student project is one 
that needs to raised because there’s a lack of recognition that a PhD is meant to be 
a learning exercise and yes, it might generate some useful evidence but there is no 
requirement for PhD student to publish their PhD so why do we require PhD students 
doing a clinical trial to publish their PhD beyond ETHOS? And I do think that they 
should write it up in a PhD thesis, I would prefer that they publish but usually the 
ones that haven’t published are the ones where, you know, it wasn’t great, there was 
nothing very exciting, they underrecruited, it did badly and I just think [poor internet 
connection] you know, would you expect the supervisors to go and write that up. It 
just, it just feels like there’s a lack of recognition that there is a difference between a 
teaching or or we say that actually PhD students shouldn’t be running trials. 

I:	Yeah right, I guess suppose that’s the other option.  [laughs]

R:	Yeah, and that’s the way we’ve gone with CTIMPs.

I:	Yeah.

R:	because, you know, we feel quite strongly that if a PhD student runs a CTIMP 
then what you’re doing is pushing them in a position a) where they could be sat in 
front of an MHRA inspector which I don’t think is fair to any PhD student and you’re 
setting them up to not fail. You cannot let them fail.

I:	Yeah.

R:	And to me that just works completely contrary to all of academia where people 
must be allowed to fail when they’re learning and so I think across the organisation I 
think there’s an acceptance that that CTIMPs are off the table for PhD students, but 
we still get PhD students running other trials.

I:	Yeah of course.

R:	And at times well and successfully and they produce good data but then what 
happens if they fall by the wayside, who’s, who’s meant to pick that up? Or you send 
a very clear message for your PhD supervisor it will in fact fall to you and you, you 
are expected to do it and there is an obligation on the supervisor but there needs to 
be some clarity on that because the supervisors just shrug their shoulders and say, 
“Well the student’s gone so, you know, there we go,”


I:	do you think that that should be at like the like national level or do you 
think like organisations should be like turning around to and like making that 
like sort of being clear about those expectations to their Faculty and students.

R:	Do you know, do you know this is where there’s disconnect because what you 
tend to find in Universities is there tends to be and I don’t know if this is your 
experience as well, there tends to be a line between education and research in, in a 
University and so the education side are the ones that deal with all the PhD students 
and all of the rules and everything around PhD students. They have absolutely no 
understanding of any of this stuff.

R:	You know, the struggle to know if a PhD student is even doing the trial 
because they’ve got so many and you know, even I’ve had discussions in the last 
year with our own PhD people that process PhD applications saying, you know, at 
the very least could they collect data on whether PhD students are doing trials as a 
PhD because they have no way of knowing. There’s no trigger, there’s nothing, 
there’s nothing in the system to even alert anybody to the fact that a student might 
be planning on doing a CTIMP and so things can and have fallen through the net but 
when I’ve gone back to try and work out well where in the system can we catch this 
so it couldn’t happen again is actually quite difficult because you realise the people 
on the educational side is, you know, as far as they’re concerned this is a PhD 
student doing and as long as supervisor’s happy then that’s fine but the supervisors 
don’t realise this could be an issue, you know, where exactly is this information going 
to be cascaded.





