
I:	Excellent so we’ll just go ahead and get started then.  So so first 
question is just can you tell me a bit about your role at the University?

R:	Okay so I’m the Head of [research integrity, governance, and ethics 
processes], so I’m based in a department called [department name] broadly similar 
terms in most organisations, I guess. It’s, the department as a whole deals with 
research governance, contracts, pre-awards, research development, technology 
transfer all those sorts of parts and my role in that is those three areas: research 
governance, research integrity and research ethics.  So research governance side 
which is what this is relevant to is research involved with the NHS and the kind of the 
sponsor representative part of the University’s function and then we have a kind of 
research integrity part which is to do with our code of practice across the whole 
University and the plethora of other policies, procedures that are relevant to all 
research not just clinical research and then ethics is the management of our, 
secretary to our open research integrity and ethics committee at the University which 
there then oversees the school’s ethics committee, so that’s kind of broadly the role, 
the background to it. And then in terms of clinical trial transparency so the research 
governance side is you sponsor representatives so yeah, we kind of agree on behalf 
of the University sponsorship. We deal with insurance so set up and initiation 
processes attend trial management group meetings, all those sort of normal things 
you’d expect from a sponsorship role. 

I:	Great and about how long have you been working in your current role 
and then in this area in general?

R:	So the area in general [over 15] years something like that and then my current 
role so I’ve been Head of the group for [less than five years].

I:	Okay, great and so if one thing I like to just tell people if, you know, if at 
any point during the questions I ask you today you have sort of reflections 
based not just on your current role but past work, past work and or 
comparisons of how things have changed over time and you’d like to add 
those that’s perfectly fine, I’m very happy to hear about anything like that as 
well and then lastly so just so I have an idea the recent, the clinical research 
portfolio for your, for your University is, does it generally include CTIMPs and 
non-CTIMPs?

R:	Yes, so CTIMPs and non-CTIMPS would come through my team for 
sponsorship, yeah so in that respect there’s no delineation in terms of within the 
team but yeah similar to a lot of other organisations we do then, once those requests 
come in, we do kind of separate out the clinical trials and have a different more 
intense set of processes around those.

I:	Great and this could be very rough numbers but about, in any the 
current moment or at any given point in time, what would you say roughly is 
the size of your trial portfolio and then what percentage are CTIMPs, very 
rough?

R:	Yeah, rough of the top of my head so it’s interesting that you ask the 
questions so the way that we operate our database actually is quite blunt, actually 
it’s CTIMPs or non-CTIMPs so there are things in the non-CTIMP which we still call a 
trial but they’re not really searchable within our, our kind of, our kind of database 
system at the moment. So in terms of CTIMPs ongoing we’d have somewhere 
between 10 and 15 at any one time and then if you kind of include broad clinical 
trials at, probably that number would probably double

I:	Okay.

R:	I would imagine within the context.

I:	Great.

R:	The non CTIMPs I guess roughly speaking ongoing at any one time would be 
a bit of a guess but I reckon it’s probably at this point in time around 200-ish.

I:	So that would include like observational research and things like that?

R:	Yeah. It’s pretty much anything we have to act as sponsor for.

I:	Okay great.

R:	Broadly speaking we tended to work out the whole package or anything we 
act as sponsor for ranging from CTIMPs to as you say observational, questionnaire-
based studies we’re probably reviewing for sponsorship somewhere just below 10 a 
month maybe.

I:	Okay.

R:	So that’s kind of broadly what we’re talking about obviously then some end 
very quickly, some go on for years, you know, all that kind of context. 

I:	Great so the first question I do l like to ask is a little bit less a little bit 
more esoteric I guess we can say but then we’ll get into the particulars of the 
organisational policy but I was just hoping if in your own words you could 
explain sort of why do you think we have requirements around the registration 
and reporting of clinical trials and place sort of, why do people consider that a 
thing worth regulating and a thing worth doing?

R:	That’s a, that’s a very very good question. It’s basically it’s basically protecting 
the health of the kind of the patient population I suppose.  It’s for, it’s for their benefit 
is the starting point. You know, making sure that we’re, we’ve got all the correct most 
up-to-date knowledge that’s available for people to use both from clinicians and 
members of the public. Nowadays, most people when they find out they’ve got a 
particular condition they’re straight online and look stuff up aren’t they? So having 
that available for potential patients and family members to look up, but also they’re 
treating clinicians, is essentially is key particularly in this field and clinical trials range 
massively don’t they in in terms of what they do but, you know, at the very sharp end 
they’re things that are fundamental to people’s lives Yeah, it’s a pretty basic, it’s as 
basic as that and as stark, stark as that. And then it’s, you know, making sure, very 
much linked to that, the broader knowledge is out there and available to people and 
it, it can be built on, it can be checked, it can be, you know, it can be replicated, all 
those sort of things which are key to open research more generally.

I:	Excellent, great and then do you see if they’re like do you see any 
downside to making these requirements sort of more in the regulatory putting 
it in a regulatory structure I guess would be a way to put it?

R:	Not specifically about putting it into regulatory structure. Clearly putting in a 
regulatory structure creates a lot of work around that.  I hesitate to say some of that 
bureaucracy because I think it’s an essential thing and 

I:	Sure.

R:	bureaucracy has quite a negative connotation around it doesn’t it, it’s kind of 
like, ‘oh it’s just some pointless, pointless bit of paperwork,’ but yeah the only 
negative is not so much that it’s regulated, it’s the it’s the level of work required 
around it to make sure that you’ve got adequate processes and I see that the more 
negative and we’ll probably come onto this later in the interview I’m guessing is really 
related to the catch-up work for all the historic stuff, that’s the challenge, you know, 
kind of saying, putting a line in the sand saying, “Okay from this point forward, we’ve 
got processes to deal with this and, you know, it’s been correctly costed etc etc,” and 
so I think going forward most organisations are probably now fairly comfortable. It’s 
trying to clear the backlog that is more, more the issue, but I don’t think that’s, that’s 
a downside from making it like a regulation as such.  

I:	Yeah, I got you yeah, we may circle back around to that later

R:	Yeah.

I:	 But so, okay so just to get us started talking about processes and 
procedures.  So, if I’m a, like say I’m a PI at the University and I’ve gotten, we’ll 
set aside funding as a barrier for now, we’ll say I’ve gotten my funding, I can, I 
want to start up a trial, what does that process, what are my first sort of steps?

R:	Okay so from a regulatory point of view and interactions with my team, the 
first steps we’d, we’d well we’d have the simplest level, we’d have what’s called our 
sponsorship application form asks a whole host of basic questions about, ‘Okay, 
what’s the study involve? The timings of it, you know, is it a CTIMP or not, which 
members of staff are involved, are you using a Trials Unit?’ all those sorts of things, 
you know, that’s the very basic starting point and we would do a sponsorship review 
and a broad risk assessment and then a staged process of yes in broad principle 
we’re happy to act as sponsor and then you’d have further stages such as, you 
know, happy for you to go to MH-, to ethics and our MHRA for their review and then 
kind of a final one about approval to commence as well. This is going to sound very 
simplistic and then in the middle of that you obviously have a, you obviously have a 
kind of initiation process which will depend on the risk level of study, so the more 
risky studies, we’re heavily involved in that initiation process. The less risky studies 
we might delegate that to the research team themselves but certainly anything in the 
realm of clinical trials we would either be doing an initiation process or receiving 
evidence to a Trials Unit for example about their initiation process and those 
processes would include specifically reference to, ‘Has it been registered, has the 
trial been registered on an appropriate registry and is there a process in place an 
awareness that it requires doing in terms of maintenance?’ So is there, is there kind 
of that process in place and we’d also raise it at that stage around making sure at the 
end of the trial that actually you know, that there is a, there is consideration up front 
that by the time you get to the end of the trial, you’ve got this, this requirement for 
people to do.  So, I mean that’s that’s broadly what the regulatory process is. When 
we’re talking about clinical trials and sort of CTIMPs certainly we have a specific 
policy that involves a trials unit so there are whole load of stages that trials units go 
through as well in terms of that set up process which is related to what my team do 
but it’s, yeah it’s not it’s not necessarily exactly the same thing so they’ll have a risk 
assessment group, they’ll have had a stats group review, they’ll have a load of SOPs 
that need doing, database development, all those sorts of bits of work will happen 
during the set up but within a trials unit environment.  

I:	So, the trials unit might have some sort of parallel or processes that sort 
of run separate from your office just because they work like, they just have 
their own internal processes essentially to deal with some of this stuff and 
beyond.

R:	And where possible we tie those in so for example we only have one trials unit 
within the University and we have a combined risk assessment process with them so 
if it’s going through that trials unit we sit on their risk assessment group and therefore 
the risk assessment is one process rather than doing theirs then doing ours, so, 
yeah, there are some combined elements to it.  It’s getting a little bit more 
complicated in the very, very near future because we’re just setting up a joint 
research office with our [local NHS body] as well, so they’ll be additional processes 
I’d imagine that’ll come out of that.

I:	Okay great yeah that’s I might ask more about that a little bit later as 
well. So it sounds to me just to make sure I’m clear in what you just described, 
so is registration is proving that sort of ‘I’ve registered my trial and it’s, and 
it’s up here, look it’s on the registry’, is that sort of a requirement before they 
can go ahead with the trial or is it just something that you make them aware 
that they have to do and then it’s up to them to ensure that it happens?

R:	No, yeah, it’s a requirement, you know, they have to show kind of evidence 
that it’s done so and that will be from from an initiation meeting, kind of initiation 
check list point of view that will be documented specifically on there, done on this 
date by this person and obviously we cross check it on the actual relevant database 
itself or registry itself anyway.

I:	Yeah, great and the so the actual registration processes is that, so the 
actual, you know, entering the words, typing into the database itself, is that, 
that’s generally done by someone on the study team not someone in your 
office?

R:	Yes, yes that’s a study team one so if you’re talking about the main the three 
three main ones I suppose you just, the European database, the ISRCTN and 
clinicaltrials.gov

I:	Yes.

R:	 So the European database will have the broad sponsor, you know, if we need 
to change people’s access and requests, certain individuals will have that 
responsibility within my team. Individual researchers actually do the updating and 
then ISRCTN again searches and clincialtrials.gov we host the the institutional admin 
but individual researchers are still doing the, and the actual inputting of data and 
information.

I:	Great and that’s usually done I assu-, is that usually done by like a Trial 
manager or like the PI or some, something like that?

R:	Generally speaking, yeah yeah, sort of Trial Manager, Research Coordinator, 
those sorts of functions. Occasionally you get a keen Chief Investigator who’s used 
to the system and happy to do it

I:	Okay.

R:	but generally speaking it’s it’s Trial Manager/Coordinator-type functions.

I:	And do you have any processes in place so say I’m a new Trial Manager 
or Research Co-ordinator or someone in that sort of a role

R:	Yep.

I:	and you know, this responsibility falls on me but I’ve never done it 
before. Do you have any sort of like mechanism by which you like help that 
person or train them or is it something that they might learn from colleagues 
or, you know, what does that look like?

R:	Yeah, I think I wouldn’t say we have specific training as such but it generally 
it’s linking in with colleagues and also through our Trials Unit, they’ve got SOPs 
related to what to do and which process. So, if someone’s from outside the Trials 
Unit we share that SOP with them and, you know, if it’s the Trials Unit more than 
happy for us to do that.

I:	Great, yeah and then when you have so obviously for a while everything 
would go right, not everything, but CTIMPs would go right to the European 
registry and sort of

R:	Yeah.

I:	that would be the automatic sort of registration process. Obviously not a 
thing anymore since come January and the finalisation of Brexit so are people 
generally, do you find for new research that’s been set up since then, are they 
using clinical, do you push people towards clinicaltrials.gov or the ISRCTN 
more or is it pretty evenly split just based on what they do?

R:	Historically clincialtrials.gov seem to be the one that everyone knows about.  I 
personally try and push people to ISRCTN.

I:	Okay.

R:	My preference I guess is partly a preference thing I found ISRCTN much 
easier to navigate and also interact with clinicaltrials.gov.  I probably will use the 
word it’s more bureaucratic and there’s so many more steps to the process but yeah 
my guidance to people has been use ISRCTN if at all possible.

I:	Great and just in your, so your office is working on, focusing on that 
sort of research governance tasks, how many people are generally in your 
office like work roughly in that, including yourself, are working in that area?

R:	We’ve got, I’d say dealing with this two to three, dealing with the kind of 
registry oversight.

I:	Great so and then when it comes to the end of the trial and that 
reporting process which you touched on a bit already, you know, the EU 
process up until we don’t have to, like it’s now ended but up until then sort of 
and I assume every once in a while, you might get something that to do that 
needs results on clincialtrials.gov as well so that’s seems from what you’ve 
described earlier it’s built in to your processes and your SOPs and do you 
have a way to sort of and you also mentioned ongoing updates and sort of 
like, 

R:	Yeah.

I:	you know, and yeah just updates, do you, can you explain a little bit how 
that sort of ongoing monitoring and like post registration requirements, how 
you, how you manage that?

R:	So the, again going the simplest way of us tracking that or at least triggering 
consideration of it would be in relation to when amendments come through so 
whenever we have amendments that can be requested from researchers we have to 
have a section sort of saying have you considered whether this requires updating on 
the relevant registry so they’ll have to, they’ll have to physically answer, “Yes I’ve 
considered it.” And then obviously we can follow that up with them if we think actually 
there is something very specific needs to be updated if they’ve changed key parts 
about the kind of inclusion/exclusion criteria or those sorts of things which are quite 
fundamental to it. 
So, we have a check during the amendment process whether that’s relevant or not, 
whether they need to update it. The other part, we also for all of our CTIMPs we are, 
we sit on the trial management groups for all of those and also then for our, kind of 
our interventional clinical trials we also kind of sit on the trial management groups for 
those as well so it’s normally speaking a standard agenda item which you may just 
flick through and go, “Yeah that’s fine, yeah, we don’t need to do anything there,”

I:	Sure.

R:	or every once in a while you go, “Actually we need to update that status 
there,” you know, it started late and the end dates coming up or, you know, all those 
sorts of things, you know might have standard points so those are the two key 
mechanisms, so our amendment process because we have to approve all 
amendments anyway and then sort of sitting on TMGs [trial management groups] 
just to make sure people have got it in their minds kind of always that these registries 
need maintaining.

I:	And then when it comes to the results reporting, how is that worked, 
because I know some people think that, you know, the EUCTR requirement, 
even the clincialtrials.gov requirement is, you know, a year like, you know, is 
that difficult? Have you found that that’s difficult for your PIs to meet generally 
or are they able to meet that pretty well, what’s the sort of experience you’ve 
had with that?

R:	Yeah, I’d say if I want to talk an idealised world it shouldn’t in theory be that 
difficult. Experience of the last year which maybe well some of it’s definitely Covid 
impacted

I:	Of course.

R:	in terms of people being able to do it. [It’s been, it’s been challenging and part 
of the issue if you take just a non-Covid, pre-Covid out,

I:	Sure.

R:	take pre-Covid time, try get my words right, pre-Covid, one of the issues 
actually and one of the learning certainly within our Trials Unit which majority of our 
trials that need registering run through our Trials Unit was actually not being too 
keen to close your ethics and MHRA on the trial.  What we were finding was that the 
Trial Managers might be very keen to close a trial down but actually the data 
cleaning and data queries to site hadn’t been completed so, you know, by the time 
that had been completed and done you might have been six months down the line 
again and then you’re really sort of chasing your tail trying to then do all the analysis 
ready for publication and do the stuff for the registry so I think that’s a learning that 
came out of relatively recently that we need to be kind of more, give more 
consideration to that when we actually want, when we actually declare the end of 
trial to make sure that that twelve-month trigger doesn’t stop too early.

I:	Great.

R:	But, yeah, I mean the biggest single issue for people doing it is resource and 
expertise because people are so familiar with the whole process of I’ve got to an 
analysis and I’m gonna publish and they’re very familiar with that process but the 
actual number of people who are familiar with again this is what it means for putting 
it up on a registry which is different and it’s and it’s a specific format and there’s also, 
you know, specific knowledge in terms of how you technically do it. The people kind 
of go, ‘Oh I’m not so sure about that.’ So I think that’s the single biggest issue is the 
kind of the people and the time to do it.

I:	Yeah, sure and just to make sure I understood based on something I 
picked up in your response there, so the registration requirement just that we 
touched one earlier is that for all, that’s for CTIMPs and non-CTIMP clinical 
research or is that only for CTIMPs?  

R:	t’s for, it’s for so CTIMPs absolutely and then it’s for interventional clinical 
trials as well. 

I:	Yeah okay.

R:	I’d say yeah that’s, that’s less strong from our point of view in terms of making 
sure those registrations and the entries on the registries are up to date and accurate. 
CTIMPs we’re kind of much more on top of.

I:	Sure.

R:	But the obviously clinical trials vary massively and kind of our involvement in 
them we found in the past we might be listed as a sponsor when we’re not a sponsor 
or you might have an investigator who’s registered against themselves or another 
organisation so there’s quite a lot of cleaning up still to do I think around some of 
those other registries.  

I:	Great and you’ve touched about this on some of your responses already 
but you know, you’ve mentioned some recent developmental changes or 
improvements and I’m interested about hearing that process and like, you 
know, what currently isn’t working so well that you’re hoping to address. 
You’ve just mentioned how you know, where you declare end of trial and 
where you think about, you know, how that relates to results reporting. Are 
there, are there things that have sort of you’ve changed and altered in recent 
years to improve or things that you’d like to see improve that are sort of on 
your to do list as it were?

R:	So, I get, so two questions of things we’ve done to improve the situation and 
then-?

I:	And then moving forward do you have anything sort of on the docket, 
yeah?

R:	So, in terms of what we’ve done to improve the situation, over the last few 
years there’s kind of a policy level, we’ve updated our Research Integrity and Ethics 
code of practice which is applicable across the whole University to explicitly set out 
the requirements for registering and maintaining and then publishing results on 
registries for clinical trials, that’s kind of explicit part of our top level University code 
of practice.  Then have so SOPs and guidance in place, some of these processes 
I’ve referred to are in the last three or four years so in terms of amendments that that 
was like relatively recent, it’s probably actually, probably more than three years, I 
think I’ve lost a year with Covid, I don’t know what’s-,

I:	Yeah, I think we all have. 

[laughter]

R:	It could have been five years ago yeah so given those relatively recent 
additions what we’ve also done recently is raise the profile within the University 
rather than just being my team and the relevant clinical investigators, actually there 
are status, I’ve been using the EU trial tracker actually is a very good tool for our 
perspective and a benchmark is using that and reporting in to so there’s two main of 
sub groups we report into, one is our open research, we’ve got our [research 
operations oversight group] and we’ve also got a [trial governance oversight group] 
so reports into both of those and both of those groups report into our overarching 
[research integrity and ethics committee] so it got College Deans of Research and 
then the Pro-Vice Chancellor of Research chairs the kind of the University level 
committee as well so actually that information’s being fed up to senior individuals at 
the University rather than previously not that long ago, it was really kind of just dealt 
with a one to one basis between us and the research team so that’s definitely of 
benefit and that’s, you know, that’s one of the good things I think also about the 
Science and Technology Committee focusing on this particular area, actually it 
focuses minds at the senior level within the University and suddenly they become 
interested and say, “Oh what’s going on in this area, what’s happening?” and that 
pressure can come from down as well as us, from kind of up and across.

I:	And and oh sorry no, please go ahead.

R:	No, no, you go on.

I:	I was going to say have you found that’s that’s really interesting to hear 
have you found at that senior level interest so it sounds like it’s become more 
routine now sort of feeding that information back up to them have you found 
that their interest in the topic has persisted like even post the Parliamentary 
letters and stuff, like are they, has it, has it been a persistent interest or was it 
a very focused interest in response to those letters that has?

R:	That’s very true, very interesting question.

I:	Yeah. [laughs]

R:	Hard to answer really, we we’re still reporting up and I think because our, if 
you look at the UK/EU trial tracker our percentage is roughly holding, there hasn’t, 
there’s been less pressure back down from them to say, “You need to sort this out.” 
But I think when we started the process of trying to clear our old trials, we were down 
at about 40 per cent I think of our new trials having actually reported, then we 
climbed up to about 80 per cent.  I think we’re hovering around low seventies at the 
moment so another a couple of trials in the last year have come onto it.  I think 
because of that those numbers I haven’t had much direct input from those senior 
individuals but yeah, they are still receiving those reports and they are still keeping 
an eye on it.  

I:	Right sure and the so yeah so you mentioned earlier, and this is where 
we’ll circle back around to it that dealing with the retrospective reporting 
requirements of those EU guidelines was a bit difficult.  Can you just talk 
about some of the issues you ran into trying to do that, like what I can imagine 
what many of them are but I’d like to hear.

R:	Yeah, you’re probably very familiar all of them, aren’t you? [laughs] It started 
off from our, our perspective, we were, we obviously ran reports off using, you know, 
the trial tracker, using EUCTR itself and actually we kind of started, we did a, we’ve 
done an enormous spreadsheet which also has ISRCTN and clinicaltrials.gov so 
there’s a whole variety of issues cropped up when we created this big spreadsheet 
so from you know, incorrect data so end data were wrong on the, on the kind of 
European database for example so we had a process of contacting the MHRA and 
getting them to update the system which was very slow to start with and then kind of 
I think they put some extra staff on and then suddenly it all happened at once. It was 
also then trying to kind of, trying to deal with those very simple projects which had, 
had finished pre-, my memory fails me, it was pre-2013 wasn’t it, July 2013?

I:	Yeah, it was, it was July 2013 or 14 but yeah something like that.

R:	Something like that so making sure we then sort of cleared those out and go 
okay, well here’s these have published, let’s get them on, on the system and then 
the other challenge is sometimes an ongoing challenge is the ones that have a 
EudraCT number but never started.

I:	Mhm.

R:	So, you know, registers, still registered as not having completed so that was a 
very specific challenge.  Very fundamentally the biggest issue with the historic trials 
is getting time for people to actually go back and do this work because they’ve 
obviously moved on, either some cases moved on out of the University, so it’s 
virtually impossible to kind of rectify that situation or they’ve kind of, they’ve moved 
onto other projects within the University therefore actually trying to find some time 
within that realm to do this work becomes challenging. So yeah trying to think the 
question is, the question was around the challenges weren’t we what we faced at the 
time. So, firstly res-, probably the trying to work out what the issue was. That’s where 
we created the massive spreadsheet and going ‘Okay, here’s what we need to deal 
with.’ Then it was going, ‘Well okay which ones can we do, which ones can we 
address in a very simple straightforward manner?’ so they were our it could of ones 
have already published that we could just upload the results for or the ones that 
never started and we can put a kind of equivalent statement up that at least sort of 
gets that off our back. And then we’re then working on the ones that actually historic 
studies that that need to upload results which might have been in two categories, 
one might have been they have published and one might mean they haven’t 
published, you know, and the haven’t published is probably the biggest challenge 
because that will generally mean that the data’s sat in a file somewhere and 
thankfully we only have one or two of those. And, and we’re trying to find solutions to 
deal with those so, you know, for example, one we managed to go through and use 
a master student so we created a project and supervisor and actually they kind of 
they did that process of analysing the results and uploading them etc so yeah that 
was an interesting project.

I:	Interesting.

R:	But I think that’s, that’s quite challenging to do so if you have to have 
appropriate, you have to have access to the data for a start but also you need 
someone who’s an appropriate supervisor and it just so happened that the Chief 
Investigator was still with us and could supervise that work along with a statistician. 
And then probably the next biggest challenge in terms of doing that work is within our 
centre for trials research they are over the last year they’ve been very challenged 
with their statistics support and resource. And they’re from our mind, they’re 
generally the key people because you know they’re from [clinical trial unit] and I’d 
say they, they’re the bulk of what I said earlier, the bulk of our clinical trials. They you 
know, they’re the statisticians are the ones with the expertise on EudraCT for 
example and uploading results and dealing with it and, obviously, they do the 
analysis generally for the trials so normally speaking that that kind of upload of 
results relies on them so any diminishing of their availability and resource has a 
knock-on impact. More recently, like I referenced Covid a couple of times, actually 
more recently some of our challenges have been with our historic trials actually 
getting access to the data so we have one specific one where the database was held 
by another organisation it took over, well over a year for us to get the database 
transferred to us.

I:	Oh, interesting.

R:	 to be able to do the upload and then another example would be actually, you 
know, where hard copy data’s coming in and that’s sat in the office and we’re all 
working from home so we can’t actually access the office to go in and do the data 
cleaning. On top of a lot of NHS organisations didn’t have the time to respond to data 
queries anyway.  

I:	Yeah.

R:	So that’s probably on, you know, those are probably the main things at this 
point in time as to why our kind of our percentage is dropped back a bit.  It’s not this, 
it’s dropped off the forefront of our minds, it’s the fact that there, there are challenges 
which in terms of resource and then accessing that data to be able to do it.

I:	Yeah so, you’ve sort of, you’ve picked off the easy ones and now you’re 
dealing with what trying to finish the hard ones.

R;	Yeah definitely, definitely. 

I:	Yeah well it’s nice to hear though that it sounds like you’ve had some 
success even with some of these more difficult trials and sort of, very 
interesting to hear about like the masters student project and that’s yeah really 
interesting to hear about so we’ve mentioned a couple of things, Brexit came 
up at one point and we’ve mentioned sort of the impact of the House of 
Commons, the Parliamentary Committee letters had could, just add a few other 
sort of major events of the last couple years have you felt any impact on so 
we’ve talked about how with the, with the, with Brexit being fully completed 
now and the losing access for future registration on the EU system, has that 
impacted your procedures, is that something you’ve had to adjust to at all 
really?

R:	Not really so far, I don’t think it’s had a massive impact the biggest impact was 
just the uncertainty because-, we’ve had three, we had three Brexits basically didn’t 
we? We’ve had three different dates in the end and it was, it was more to do with 
people kind of coming up with questions, ‘Okay, well what happens after Brexit? Are 
we even going to have access to EudraCT at all to upload the ones that are already 
registered on there?’ and ‘What happens after Brexit, do you, are we still going to get 
a EudraCT number and if we do get EudraCT number does that commit us to still 
entering information on the database?’ so it was more to do with the uncertainty of 
the information coming out of it rather than necessarily the procedures for doing it 
and uploading results and all the rest of it.

I:	Yeah so, my understanding and correct me if I’m wrong, my 
understanding is the current procedure looks a lot like the old procedure. It’s 
just that the trial doesn’t eventually go to the EMA anymore, is that correct, 
yeah?

R:	Yeah.

I:	Yeah and then the other thing I wanted to ask is have you began sort of 
making any preparation or has anything ch- or I know there’s not a whole load 
of detail on this yet but [what about updates to national requirements]?
[Short, non-essential clarification that included identifiable information removed]
I:	Right okay and that so I assume like, you know, you’re aware of the 
Make it Public,

R:	Yeah.

I:	the name of the new campaign.  Is it still too early times for that or has 
there been any changes or reaction to that yet?

R:	Yeah, for much, still a bit too early times at the moment it’s exactly what the 
context is. I think there was a was it this week or next week?  I think it was 
yesterday, I think there was a HRA consultation process, like a Webinar specifically 
on this topic the ‘Make It Public’ which unfortunately no-one in my team was able to 
attend but it’s certainly on our radar but yeah, we haven’t specifically adapted 
processes yet for it.  

I:	Yeah, and then just to circle back around to one of the things you talked 
about earlier, you talked about that you’re in the process of sort of setting up a 
joint research office with your local NHS, you know, organisation. How has 
that like, you know, I’ve spoken to people throughout this project, you know, at 
both the NHS side and the University side and I’m always interested to hear 
about sort of the challenges or the like efforts to sort of unify some of these 
transparency polices and procedures across organisations.

R:	Yeah.

I:	Has that been something you’ve, you know, what has that looked like or 
is that something you’ve even dealt with in this process to date?

R:	Yeah, well I mean at this stage, the actual specifics of it we haven’t dealt with 
yet so the idea is, just give you a bit of context in terms of our joint research office, 
we’ve got a physical office which we haven’t yet moved into which we’ll move into in 
[the near future] and then from that we’ll then start combining some of our processes 
within to review at some point next year saying we are a formal joint research office. 
So we’re some way of in terms of having combined processes however you know, 
we’ve been working closely for a long time so for example when I’ve had information 
from yourself orTranspariMED is the other example, the Science and Technology 
Committee, I’ve shared that information with our Health Board to make sure they 
have similar processes to us and make sure they’re kind of there, they’re doing 
similar check and going, ‘Okay well how do we rate on this, you know, how many of 
our due trials have reported results and how are we doing on clincialtrials.gov?’ So 
yeah, in terms of information sharing and awareness that’s happened already.  In 
terms of the actual processes, we haven’t addressed that part of it yet. 

I:	Great and yeah and I guess one last question, so I’m gonna ask some 
questions but I don’t wanna lose this thought before we move on do you feel, 
so it sounds like, you know, a lot of, there’s been a lot of innovation and 
process improvement going on over the last, you know, couple of years you’ve 
mentioned and it seems like, you know, quite a bit of that was in response to 
the Parliamentary letter sort of something processes changed.  So do you feel 
like, you know, the processes has improved enough that moving forward you 
are confident that you will get in a, you know, some of the problems you’ve 
discussed so far with the older trials were things sort of, when there was no 
processes to track these things they could easily, you know, be in a filing 
cabinet somewhere or someone could leave. Do you feel confident that, you 
know, the processes have been approved enough that that is no longer like a 
risk moving forward?

R:	I’m not sure you have a status ‘no longer a risk’ 

I:	Well at least a drastically reduced risk perhaps?

R;	Yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely. 

I:	Yeah.

R:	So CTIMPs 100 per cent I’m, I’m confident, you know, that that we have 
processes in place.  Where, where I want to see us improve and that will be probably 
part of our joint research office discussions is, is that kind of range of projects which 
are interventional clinical trials which don’t necessarily have all of the exact same 
processes.  Most of them do apply but I wouldn’t be as confident with those ones 
than the CTIMPs.

I:	Great and one last one question on this section so when it comes to 
results off the registry we’ll call them so if I want to publish a paper is your 
office involved in that process or procedure or is that solely just the PIs are in 
charge of that, and they publish those papers?

R:	Yeah, we’re not involved in that at all.

I:	Okay great so you mentioned that so that you do some information 
sharing with your local NHS organisation. When, I think the sort of last section 
here that I’m interested in hearing about is how do you, is more about that how 
do you learn about and keep on top of, you know, how all these regulations 
and rules are changing and then start thinking about how that impacts your 
organisation and what you need to do to respond to that? That will be my first 
question

R:	Okay.

I:	so how do you learn and stay on top of the news as it were?

R;	So I’ll go, I’ll go back a bit and and kind of reference a couple of things so the 
Science and Technology Committee was definitely of use to us. What I’d say is 
before that actually, you know, we’d started this work anyway, what the Science and 
Technology Committee part did was really focus the minds, you know, and actually it 
became an issue which Institutions were interested in rather than individuals within 
Institutions and so that was definitely kind of benefit from that perspective. In terms 
of keeping updated, actually, I can I found I can’t stand Freedom of Information 
requests because it just consumes your time. I’ve actually found those coming have 
helped as well. So, I mentioned TranspariMED earlier, so, we we had a flurry over a 
period of two years of freedom of information requests and those helped obviously in 
terms of focusing people’s minds but actually they helped with information raising 
within the organisation and my own knowledge. Likewise, the you know, the trial 
tracker website has key information on so in terms of external resources those two 
sites I actually found quite useful when I was starting out on this going, ‘Okay what 
do we need to improve and how do we do it?’ In terms of other knowledge, I’m also 
part of probably two key groups from a Russell Group perspective I sit on the Russell 
Group Research Integrity Forum which has cropped up at occasionally but also the, 
the we’ve got a Russell Group get the name right, Association of University 
Research Sponsors I think it’s called. So we have that as well which again these 
sorts of topics will come up, we self-define what our agendas are each time but this 
sort of thing will come up over time I think it’s been a specific topic and I think for 
example we’ve had information from [colleagues at other universities] I think they did 
a presentation at some point […] But, anyway, they shared that information with us 
so yeah in terms of knowledge from my peers within the UK  that’s kind of the route 
for getting information from them and then there’s kind of the groups such as 
yourself and the TranspariMED seem to be quite quiet at the moment ominously 
those have been very useful and the Science Technology Committee and then within 
the university itself it’s primarily a link with our Trials Unit because they have 
dedicated individuals who work on Quality Assurance and Regulatory Affairs who are 
now building up specific expertise on EudraCT, ISRCTN and clinicaltrials.gov so I 
have that level of interaction with them as well.
In terms of both learning and keeping on top of where we’re at with our registries, I 
have monthly meetings with our [CTU] so with the Director and the Head of Quality 
Assurance and this is a regular agenda item on it so it highlights individual projects 
but also talks about latest knowledge of things that we can do and adapt so an 
example would be when we’ve got, got information about work around from I think it 
was [a colleague at another university] actually, in terms of those, those trials which 
never started

I:	Yeah.

R:	but you have to, but you have to enter results on for it to be marked up as 
entered results.

I:	Yeah. 

R:	So, she developed a work around and we shared information around that 
between our Trials Unit and kind of myself on that and how we might do that.

I:	Great and excellent so you actually covered most of the questions I was 
planning on asking in that in that response, so that was great. So yeah I think 
that actually pretty much covers much of what I want to talk about today so my 
final question is always is there anything else you’d like in this area or about 
that, you know, about your organisation that you’d like to share that, you 
know, I didn’t ask about or were you expecting me to ask about and I didn’t or 
just anything else you’d like to say in closing before we finish up.

R:	The only thing I’d comment on is from our perspective in terms of EudraCT 
and the European database although we still have some outstanding trials to do 
that’s probably the simplest end of the spectrum and it’s the clincialtrials.gov which 
I’m finding much more complicated because it’s got a such a wider range of projects 
and individuals who registered them and probably a longer backlog of areas to 
address so that’s probably a bigger challenge for us than, than the clinical, the 
European database.

I:	Interesting.

R:	So just yeah broad observation on that, I think that’s probably our bigger 
challenge going forward.

I:	Yeah, and then you found that like comparative, you mentioned earlier 
but just to reiterate you found compared to the ISRCTN which you feel like is a 
lot simpler to interface with and work with.  

R:	Yeah well, my example with the ISRCTN is we had a couple of trials which 
we’d already published so I just contacted ISRCTN, emailed the administrator and 
they said, “Yes send us that we’ll up, and we’ll update the entry for you.” Boom, 
done. Whereas, the in comparison clincialtrials.gov maybe that sort of thing, you can 
obviously attach a a publication if you want to but it doesn’t count as results being 
published and you’ve got to go through the whole process of the researcher does 
something and then we authorise it and release and then it goes back to them and 
then they have some questions that we’ve done something wrong and then there’s a 
whole, yeah there’s a whole rigmarole around it.

I:	Right sure excellent alright so I think that’s pretty much it.  I’m going to 
stop the recording.
